REGULATION (EU) 2019/502 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 25 March 2019 
on common rules ensuring basic air connectivity with regard to the withdrawal of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the Union 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 100(2) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, 
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (1), 
After consulting the Committee of the Regions, 
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (2), 
Whereas: 
(1)  
On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom submitted the notification of its intention to withdraw from the Union 
pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The Treaties will cease to apply to the United Kingdom 
from the date of entry into force of a withdrawal agreement or failing that, two years after that notification, 
namely from 30 March 2019, unless the European Council, in agreement with the United Kingdom, unanimously 
decides to extend that period. 
(2)  
Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) sets out the conditions for the 
granting of the Union operating licence to air carriers and establishes the freedom to provide intra-EU air 
services. 
(3)  
In the absence of any special provisions, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union would end all 
rights and obligations ensuing from Union law in respect of market access as established by Regulation (EC) 
No 1008/2008, insofar as the relationship between the United Kingdom and the remaining 27 Member States is 
concerned. 
(4)  
It is therefore necessary to establish a temporary set of measures enabling carriers licensed in the United 
Kingdom to provide air transport services between the territory of the latter and the remaining 27 Member 
States. In order to ensure a proper equilibrium between the United Kingdom and the remaining 27 Member 
States, the rights thus conferred should be conditional upon the conferral of equivalent rights by the United 
Kingdom to air carriers licensed in the Union and be subject to certain conditions ensuring fair competition. 
(5)  
In order to reflect its temporary character, the application of this Regulation should be limited to a short period 
of time, without prejudice to the possible negotiation and entry into force of a future agreement covering the 
provision of air services with the United Kingdom to which the Union is a party. The Commission should be 
given, upon its recommendation, as soon as possible, an authorisation to negotiate a comprehensive air transport 
agreement with the United Kingdom. Such an agreement should be negotiated and concluded without delay. 
(6)  
In order to maintain mutually beneficial levels of connectivity, cooperative marketing arrangements, such as 
code-sharing, should be foreseen for both UK air carriers and Union air carriers in line with the principle of 
reciprocity. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/49 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Opinion of 20 February 2019 (not yet published in the Official Journal). 
(2) Position of the European Parliament of 13 March 2019 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of 
19 March 2019. 
(3) Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on common rules for the 
operation of air services in the Community (OJ L 293, 31.10.2008, p. 3). 
(7)  
In view of the exceptional and unique circumstances that necessitate the adoption of this Regulation and in 
accordance with the Treaties, it is appropriate for the Union to exercise temporarily the relevant shared 
competence conferred upon it by the Treaties. However, any effect of this Regulation on the division of 
competences between the Union and the Member States should be strictly limited in time. The competence 
exercised by the Union should therefore only be exercised with respect to the period of application of this 
Regulation. Accordingly, the shared competence thus exercised will cease to be exercised by the Union as soon as 
this Regulation ceases to apply. In accordance with Article 2(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, Member States will, therefore, again exercise their competence as of that moment. Furthermore, it is 
recalled that, as set out in Protocol No 25 on the exercise of shared competence annexed to the Treaty on 
European Union and Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the scope of the exercise of the 
competence of the Union in this Regulation covers only those elements governed by this Regulation and does 
not cover the whole area. The respective competences of the Union and of the Member States with respect to the 
conclusion of international agreements in the area of air transport are to be determined in accordance with the 
Treaties and taking into account relevant Union legislation. 
(8)  
According to Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008, in order to maintain valid operating licences, Union air carriers are 
to notably comply at all times with the ownership and control requirements set out in that Regulation. In the 
event that the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union takes place without the withdrawal agreement, 
some Union air carriers are likely to encounter difficulties in complying with those requirements as from the 
withdrawal date. It is therefore necessary to put in place contingency measures. In accordance with the principles 
of equal treatment and proportionality, those measures should be limited to what is strictly necessary to address 
the problems ensuing from the disorderly withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union. In view of the 
same principles, it is also necessary to establish mechanisms to allow close monitoring of progress towards 
compliance with the ownership and control requirements and to withdraw the operating licence, where this is 
warranted. In order to avoid an abrupt cessation of the operations and allow notably for the repatriation of 
affected passengers, the revocation of a non-complying operating licence, in case no appropriate plan for 
remedial action has been presented, should be effective two weeks after the revocation decision. 
(9)  
This Regulation should not prevent Member States from issuing authorisations for the operation of scheduled air 
services by Union air carriers in the exercise of rights granted to them by the United Kingdom, similarly to 
situations occuring in the context of international agreements. In respect of those authorisations, Member States 
should not discriminate between Union air carriers. 
(10)  
The Commission and the Member States should resolve the problems that may affect the existing traffic 
distribution schemes as a result of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union. In particular, 
appropriate measures should be taken to ensure full compliance with these schemes and to provide as much as 
possible for an orderly transition in order to avoid disruption to passengers and companies in the Union. 
(11)  
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Regulation, implementing powers should 
be conferred on the Commission as regards the adoption of measures to guarantee a fair degree of reciprocity 
between the rights unilaterally granted by the Union and the United Kingdom to each other's air carriers, and to 
ensure that Union air carriers can compete with UK air carriers under fair conditions in the provision of air 
services. Those powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council (4). Given their potential impact on the air connectivity of the Member States, the 
examination procedure should be used for the adoption of those measures. The Commission should adopt 
immediately applicable implementing acts where, in duly justified cases, imperative grounds of urgency so 
require. Such duly justified cases might concern those where the United Kingdom fails to grant equivalent rights 
to Union air carriers and thereby causes a manifest imbalance, or where less favourable conditions of competition 
than those enjoyed by UK air carriers in the provision of air transport services covered by this Regulation 
threaten the economic viability of Union air carriers. 
(12)  
Since the objective of this Regulation, namely to lay down provisional measures governing air transport between 
the Union and the United Kingdom in the event of the absence of a withdrawal agreement, cannot be sufficiently 
achieved by the Member States but can rather, by reason of its scale and effects, be better achieved at Union level, 
the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the 
Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in that Article, this 
Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/50 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(4) Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general 
principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 
28.2.2011, p. 13). 
(13)  
The territorial scope of this Regulation and any reference to the United Kingdom therein does not include 
Gibraltar. 
(14)  
This Regulation is without prejudice to the legal position of the Kingdom of Spain with regard to the sovereignty 
over the territory in which the airport of Gibraltar is situated. 
(15)  
The provisions of this Regulation should enter into force as a matter of urgency and should apply, in principle, 
from the day following that on which the Treaties cease to apply to the United Kingdom unless a withdrawal 
agreement concluded with the United Kingdom has entered into force by that date. However, in order to allow 
for the necessary administrative procedures to be conducted as early as possible, certain provisions should apply 
as from the entry into force of this Regulation, 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Scope 
This Regulation lays down a temporary set of measures governing air transport between the Union and the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (‘United Kingdom’) following its withdrawal from the Union. 
Article 2 
Exercise of competence 
1.
The exercise of Union competence pursuant to this Regulation shall be limited to the period of application of this 
Regulation as defined in Article 16(4). After the end of this period the Union shall immediately cease to exercise that 
competence and the Member States shall again exercise their competence in accordance with Article 2(2) of the Treaty 
on the Functioning of the European Union. 
2.
The exercise of Union competence pursuant to this Regulation shall be without prejudice to the competence of the 
Member States concerning traffic rights in any ongoing or future negotiations, signature, or conclusion of international 
agreements related to air services with any other third country, and with the United Kingdom with respect to the period 
after this Regulation has ceased to apply. 
3.
The exercise of the competence by the Union referred to in paragraph 1 only covers the elements governed by this 
Regulation. 
4.
This Regulation is without prejudice to the respective competences of the Union and the Member States in the area 
of air transport with regard to elements other than those governed by this Regulation. 
Article 3 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Regulation the following definitions apply:  
1. ‘air transport’ means the carriage by aircraft of passengers, baggage, cargo, and mail, separately or in combination, 
held out to the public for remuneration or hire, including scheduled and non-scheduled air services;  
2. ‘international air transport’ means air transport that passes through the airspace over the territory of more than one 
State;  
3. ‘Union air carrier’ means an air carrier with a valid operating licence granted by a competent licensing authority in 
accordance with Chapter II of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008;  
4. ‘UK air carrier’ means an air carrier which: 
(a)  has its principal place of business in the United Kingdom; and 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/51 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(b)  fulfils one of the following two conditions: 
(i)  the United Kingdom and/or nationals of the United Kingdom own more than 50 % of the undertaking and 
effectively control it, whether directly or indirectly through one or more intermediate undertakings; or 
(ii)  Union Member States and/or nationals of Union Member States and/or other Member States of the 
European Economic Area and/or nationals of such States, in any combination, whether alone or together 
with the United Kingdom and/or nationals of the United Kingdom, own more than 50 % of the undertaking 
and effectively control it, whether directly or indirectly through one or more intermediate undertakings; 
(c)  in the case referred to in point (b)(ii), held a valid operating licence in accordance with Regulation (EC) 
No 1008/2008 on the day before the first day of application of this Regulation set out in the first subparagraph 
of Article 16(2);  
5. ‘effective control’ means a relationship constituted by rights, contracts or any other means which, either separately 
or jointly and having regard to the considerations of fact or law involved, confer the possibility of directly or 
indirectly exercising a decisive influence on an undertaking, in particular by: 
(a)  the right to use all or part of the assets of an undertaking; 
(b)  rights or contracts which confer a decisive influence on the composition, voting or decisions of the bodies of an 
undertaking or otherwise confer a decisive influence on the running of the business of the undertaking;  
6. ‘competition law’ means law which addresses the following conduct, where it may affect air transport services: 
(a)  conduct that consists of: 
(i)  agreements between air carriers, decisions by associations of air carriers and concerted practices which have 
as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition; 
(ii)  abuses by one or more air carriers of a dominant position; 
(iii)  measures taken or maintained in force by the United Kingdom in case of public undertakings and 
undertakings to which the United Kingdom grants special or exclusive rights and which are contrary to 
points (i) or (ii); and 
(b)  concentrations between air carriers which significantly impede effective competition, in particular as a result of 
the creation or strengthening of a dominant position;  
7. ‘subsidy’ means any financial contribution granted to an air carrier or an airport by the government or any other 
public body at any level, conferring a benefit, and including: 
(a)  the direct transfer of funds, such as grants, loans or equity infusion, the potential direct transfer of funds, the 
assumption of liabilities, such as loan guarantees, capital injections, ownership, protection against bankruptcy or 
insurance; 
(b)  the foregoing or non-collection of revenue that is otherwise due; 
(c)  the provision of goods or services other than general infrastructure, or the purchase of goods or services; or 
(d)  the making of payments to a funding mechanism or entrustment or direction to a private body to carry out one 
or more of the functions mentioned under (a), (b) and (c) which would normally be vested in the government 
or other public body and the practice in no real sense differs from practices normally followed by governments; 
No benefit is deemed to be conferred by a financial contribution carried out by a government or other public body 
if a private market operator solely driven by profitability prospects, in the same situation as the public body in 
question, would have carried out the same financial contribution;  
8. ‘independent competition authority’ means an authority which is in charge of the application and enforcement of 
competition law, as well as the control of subsidies, and fulfils all of the following conditions: 
(a)  the authority is operationally independent and is appropriately equipped with the resources necessary to carry 
out its tasks; 
(b)  in performing its duties and exercising its powers, the authority has the necessary guarantees of independence 
from political or other external influence and acts impartially; and 
(c)  the decisions of the authority are subject to judicial review; 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/52 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
9. ‘discrimination’ means differentiation of any kind without objective justification in respect of the supply of goods or 
services, including public services, employed for the operation of air transport services, or in respect of their 
treatment by public authorities relevant to such services;  
10. ‘scheduled air transport service’ means a series of flights possessing all the following characteristics: 
(a)  on each flight seats and/or capacity to transport cargo and/or mail are available for individual purchase by the 
public (either directly from the air carrier or from its authorised agents); 
(b)  it is operated so as to serve traffic between the same two or more airports, either: 
(i)  according to a published timetable; or 
(ii)  with flights so regular or frequent that they constitute a recognisably systematic series;  
11. ‘non-scheduled air transport service’ means a commercial air transport service performed other than as a scheduled 
air service;  
12. ‘territory of the Union’ means the land territory, internal waters and territorial sea of the Member States to which 
the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union apply and under the 
conditions laid down in those Treaties, and the air space above them;  
13. ‘territory of the United Kingdom’ means the land territory, internal waters and territorial sea of the United Kingdom 
and the air space above them;  
14. ‘Chicago Convention’ means the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago on 7 December 
1944. 
Article 4 
Traffic rights 
1.
UK air carriers may, under the conditions laid down in this Regulation: 
(a)  fly across the territory of the Union without landing; 
(b)  make stops in the territory of the Union for non-traffic purposes, within the meaning of the Chicago Convention; 
(c)  perform scheduled and non-scheduled international air transport services for passengers, combination of passengers 
and cargo and all-cargo services between any pair of points of which one is situated in the territory of the United 
Kingdom and the other one is situated in the territory of the Union; 
(d)  for a maximum of five months from the first day of application set out in the first subparagraph of Article 16(2), 
perform scheduled and non-scheduled international air transport services for all-cargo services between any pair of 
points of which one is situated in the territory of the Union and the other is situated in the territory of a third 
country, as part of a service with origin or destination in the territory of the United Kingdom. The total seasonal 
capacity to be provided by UK air carriers for those services shall not exceed the total number of frequencies 
operated by those carriers for those services during the IATA winter and summer seasons of the year 2018, 
respectively, pro rata temporis; 
(e)  for a maximum of seven months from the first day of application set out in the first subparagraph of Article 16(2), 
continue to provide scheduled air services on routes subject to public service obligations where the right to operate 
has been granted in accordance with Articles 16 and 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 before the date of 
application of this Regulation and subject to the compliance with the conditions for those services set out in 
Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008. 
2.
The Member States shall use the period referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1 to take any measures required in 
order to ensure that the public services considered necessary continue after the expiry of that period, in accordance with 
Articles 16 and 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008. 
3.
The Member States shall neither negotiate nor enter into any bilateral agreements or arrangements with the United 
Kingdom on matters falling within the scope of this Regulation with respect to the period during which this Regulation 
applies. With respect to that period, they shall not otherwise grant UK air carriers, in connection with air transport, any 
rights other than those granted by this Regulation. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/53 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Article 5 
Cooperative marketing arrangements 
1.
Air transport services in accordance with Article 4 of this Regulation may be provided under cooperative 
marketing arrangements, such as blocked-space or code-sharing arrangements, as follows: 
(a)  the UK air carrier may act as the marketing carrier, with any operating carrier that is a Union air carrier or a UK air 
carrier, or with any operating carrier of a third country which, under Union law or, as applicable, under the law of 
the Member State or Member States concerned, enjoys the necessary traffic rights as well as the right for its carriers 
to exercise those rights by means of the arrangement in question; 
(b)  the UK air carrier may act as the operating carrier, with any marketing carrier which is a Union air carrier or a UK 
air carrier, or with any marketing carrier of a third country which, under Union law or, as applicable, under the law 
of the Member State or Member States concerned, enjoys the necessary route rights as well as the right for its 
carriers to exercise those rights by means of the arrangement in question. 
2.
In no case shall recourse to cooperative marketing arrangements, whether as an operating carrier or as a marketing 
carrier, result in a UK air carrier exercising rights other than those provided for in Article 4(1). 
3.
In no case shall the rights granted to UK air carriers under paragraph 1 be construed as conferring on air carriers 
of a third country any rights other than those that they enjoy under Union law or under the law of the Member State or 
Member States concerned. 
4.
The Member States concerned shall require the arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 to be approved by their 
competent authorities for the purpose of verifying compliance with the conditions set out in this Article and with the 
applicable requirements in Union and national law, in particular as regards safety and security. 
Article 6 
Aircraft leasing 
1.
In exercising the rights provided for in Article 4(1), a UK air carrier may provide air transport services with its 
own aircraft and in all the following cases: 
(a)  using aircraft leased without crew from any lessor; 
(b)  using aircraft leased with crew from any other UK air carrier; 
(c)  using aircraft leased with crew from air carriers of any country other than the United Kingdom, provided that the 
leasing is justified on the basis of exceptional needs, seasonal capacity needs or operational difficulties of the lessee 
and the leasing does not exceed the duration which is strictly necessary to fulfil those needs or overcome those 
difficulties. 
2.
The Member States concerned shall require the arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 to be approved by their 
competent authorities for the purpose of verifying compliance with the conditions set out therein and with the 
applicable requirements in Union and national law, in particular as regards safety and security. 
Article 7 
Treatment of operating licences in view of ownership and control requirements 
1.
By way of derogation from Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008, where an air carrier holding an operating 
licence issued by a Member State other than the United Kingdom ceases to comply with the requirements set out in 
point (f) of Article 4 of that Regulation (‘ownership and control requirements’) due to the withdrawal of the United 
Kingdom from the Union, failure to comply with those requirements shall not affect the validity of the operating licence 
until the end of a period of six months from the first day of application set out in the first subparagraph of 
Article 16(2) of this Regulation, provided that the conditions set out in paragraphs 2 to 5 of this Article are fulfilled. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/54 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
2.
Within two weeks from the entry into force of this Regulation, the air carrier shall present a plan for remedial 
action to the competent licensing authority. That plan shall set out, in a complete and precise manner, the measures 
intended to achieve full compliance with the ownership and control requirements at the latest on the first day following 
the period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Where the air carrier has not presented a plan within the time 
limit, the competent licensing authority shall, after having given the air carrier concerned the opportunity to make its 
views known, revoke the operating licence immediately, but at the earliest from the date referred to in the first 
subparagraph of Article 16(2), and inform the Commission thereof. Such revocation shall be effective two weeks after 
the decision of the licensing authority, but at the earliest from the date referred to in Article 16(2). The competent 
licensing authority shall notify its decision to the air carrier and inform the Commission. 
3.
Where the air carrier concerned has presented a plan for remedial action within the time limit referred to in 
paragraph 2, the competent licensing authority shall, within two months from the reception of the plan, assess whether 
the measures set out therein would result in full compliance with the ownership and control requirements at the latest 
on the first day following the period referred to in paragraph 1, and whether it appears likely that the air carrier will 
complete the measures by that date. The competent licensing authority shall inform the air carrier and the Commission 
of its assessment. 
4.
Where the competent licensing authority, after having given the air carrier concerned the opportunity to make its 
views known, finds that the measures set out in the plan would not result in full compliance with the ownership and 
control requirements at the latest on the first day following the period referred to in paragraph 1, or where it appears 
unlikely that the air carrier concerned will complete the measures by that date, it may immediately revoke the operating 
licence. Such revocation shall be effective two weeks after the decision of the licensing authority. The competent 
licensing authority shall notify its decision to the air carrier and inform the Commission. 
5.
Where the competent licensing authority finds that the measures set out in the plan would result in full 
compliance with the ownership and control requirements at the latest on the first day following the period referred to in 
paragraph 1, and where it appears likely for the air carrier to complete those measures by that date, it shall closely and 
continuously monitor the implementation of the plan and regularly inform the Commission of its findings. 
6.
By the end of the period referred to in paragraph 1, the competent licensing authority shall decide if the air carrier 
fully complies with the ownership and control requirements. If the competent licensing authority, after having given the 
air carrier concerned the opportunity to make its views known, decides that the air carrier does not fully comply with 
the ownership and control requirements, it shall revoke the operating licence as from the first day following the period 
referred to in paragraph 1. 
7.
Where, after having given the competent licensing authority and the air carrier concerned the opportunity to make 
their views known, the Commission finds that the competent licensing authority has failed to revoke the relevant 
operating licence, where such revocation is required under paragraph 2 or paragraph 6 of this Article, the Commission 
shall, in accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 15(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008, request the 
competent licensing authority to revoke the operating licence. The third and fourth subparagraphs of Article 15(3) of 
that Regulation shall apply. 
8.
This Article is without prejudice to the application of any other provision set out in Regulation (EC) 
No 1008/2008. 
Article 8 
Equivalence of rights 
1.
The Commission shall monitor the rights granted by the United Kingdom to Union air carriers and the conditions 
for their exercise. 
2.
Where the Commission determines that the rights granted by the United Kingdom to Union air carriers are not, de 
jure or de facto, equivalent to those granted to UK air carriers under this Regulation, or that those rights are not equally 
available to all Union carriers, the Commission shall, without delay and in order to restore equivalence, adopt 
implementing acts to: 
(a)  establish limits to the allowable capacity for scheduled air transport services available to UK air carriers and require 
the Member States to adapt the operating authorisations of UK air carriers, both existing and newly granted, 
accordingly; 
(b)  require the Member States to refuse, suspend or revoke the said operating authorisations; or 
(c)  impose financial duties or operational restrictions. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/55 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15(2). 
They shall be adopted in accordance with the urgency procedure referred to in Article 15(3) where, in duly justified 
cases of serious lack of equivalence for the purposes of paragraph 2, imperative grounds of urgency so require. 
Article 9 
Fair competition 
1.
The Commission shall monitor the conditions under which Union air carriers and Union airports compete with 
UK air carriers and United Kingdom airports for the provision of air transport services covered by this Regulation. 
2.
Where it determines that, as a result of any of the situations referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, those 
conditions are appreciably less favourable than those enjoyed by UK air carriers, the Commission shall, without delay 
and in order to remedy that situation, adopt implementing acts to: 
(a)  establish limits to the allowable capacity for scheduled air transport services available to UK air carriers and require 
the Member States to adapt the operating authorisations of UK air carriers, both existing and newly granted, 
accordingly; 
(b)  require the Member States to refuse, suspend or revoke the said operating authorisations for some or all UK air 
carriers; or 
(c)  impose financial duties or operational restrictions. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15(2). 
They shall be adopted in accordance with the urgency procedure referred to in Article 15(3) where, in duly justified 
cases of threat to the economic viability of one or more operations of Union air carriers, imperative grounds of urgency 
so require. 
3.
The implementing acts referred to in paragraph 2 shall, subject to the conditions specified in that paragraph, be 
adopted to remedy the following situations: 
(a)  the granting of subsidies by the United Kingdom; 
(b)  failure, by the United Kingdom to have in place or to effectively apply competition law; 
(c)  failure by the United Kingdom to establish or maintain an independent competition authority; 
(d)  the application by the United Kingdom of standards in the protection of workers, safety, security, the environment, 
or passenger rights, which are inferior to those laid down in Union law or, in the absence of relevant provisions in 
Union law, inferior to those applied by all Member States or, in any event, inferior to relevant international 
standards; 
(e)  any form of discrimination against Union air carriers. 
4.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, the Commission may request information from the competent authorities of the 
United Kingdom, UK air carriers or United Kingdom airports. Where the competent authorities of the United Kingdom, 
the UK air carrier or United Kingdom airport do not provide the information requested within the reasonable period 
prescribed by the Commission, or provide incomplete information, the Commission may proceed in accordance with 
paragraph 2. 
5.
Regulation (EC) No 868/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (5) shall not apply to matters falling 
within the scope of this Regulation. 
Article 10 
Operating authorisation 
1.
Without prejudice to Union and national law in the area of aviation safety, in order to exercise the rights granted 
to them under Article 4, UK air carriers shall be required to obtain an operating authorisation from each Member State 
in which they wish to operate. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/56 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(5) Regulation (EC) No 868/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 concerning protection against subsidisa­
tion and unfair pricing practices causing injury to Community air carriers in the supply of air services from countries not members of the 
European Community (OJ L 162, 30.4.2004, p. 1). 
2.
On receipt of an application for an operating authorisation from a UK air carrier, the Member State concerned 
shall grant the appropriate operating authorisation without undue delay, provided that: 
(a)  the applicant UK air carrier holds a valid operating licence in accordance with the legislation of the United Kingdom; 
and 
(b)  effective regulatory control over the applicant UK air carrier is exercised and maintained by the United Kingdom, the 
competent authority is clearly identified and the UK air carrier holds an air operator certificate delivered by the said 
authority. 
3.
Without prejudice to the need to allow for sufficient time for the carrying out of necessary assessments, UK air 
carriers are entitled to submit their applications for operating authorisations as from the day this Regulation enters into 
force. The Member States shall have the power to approve those applications as from that day, provided that the 
conditions for such approval are met. However, any authorisations thus granted shall take effect no earlier than the first 
day of application set out in the first subparagraph of Article 16(2). 
Article 11 
Operational plans, programmes and schedules 
1.
UK air carriers shall submit the operational plans, programmes and schedules for air services to the competent 
authorities of each Member State concerned, for their approval. Any such submission shall be made at least 30 days 
prior to the start of the operations. 
2.
Subject to Article 10, the operational plans, programmes and schedules for the IATA season that is in progress on 
the first day of application of this Regulation set out in the first subparagraph of Article 16(2) and those for the first 
season thereafter may be submitted and approved before that date. 
3.
This Regulation shall not prevent Member States from issuing authorisations for the operation of scheduled air 
services by Union carriers in the exercise of rights granted to them by the United Kingdom. In respect of those 
authorisations, Member States shall not discriminate between Union carriers. 
Article 12 
Refusal, revocation, suspension and limitation of authorisation 
1.
Member States shall refuse, or as the case may be, revoke or suspend the operating authorisation of a UK air 
carrier where: 
(a)  the air carrier does not qualify as a UK air carrier under this Regulation; or 
(b)  the conditions laid down in Article 10(2) are not complied with. 
2.
The Member States shall refuse, revoke, suspend, limit or impose conditions on the operating authorisation of 
a UK air carrier, or limit or impose conditions on its operations in any of the following circumstances: 
(a)  the applicable safety and security requirements are not complied with; 
(b)  the applicable requirements relating to the admission to, the operation within, or the departure from the territory of 
the Member State concerned of aircraft engaged in air transport are not complied with; 
(c)  the applicable requirements relating to the admission to, operation within, or departure from the territory of the 
Member State concerned of passengers, crew, baggage, cargo, and/or mail on aircraft (including regulations relating 
to entry, clearance, immigration, passports, customs and quarantine, or in the case of mail, postal regulations) are 
not complied with. 
3.
The Member States shall refuse, revoke, suspend, limit or impose conditions on the operating authorisations of UK 
air carriers, or limit or impose conditions on their operations, where they are required to do so by the Commission in 
accordance with Articles 8 or 9. 
4.
The Member States shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of any decisions to refuse or revoke 
the operating authorisation of a UK air carrier pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2, without undue delay. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/57 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Article 13 
Certificates and licences 
Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licences issued or rendered valid by the United Kingdom 
and still in force shall be recognised as valid by the Member States for the purpose of the operation of air transport 
services by UK air carriers under this Regulation, provided that such certificates or licences were issued or rendered valid 
pursuant to, and in conformity with, as a minimum, the relevant international standards established under the Chicago 
Convention. 
Article 14 
Consultation and cooperation 
1.
The Member States' competent authorities shall consult and cooperate with the competent authorities of the 
United Kingdom as necessary in order to ensure the implementation of this Regulation. 
2.
Member States shall, upon request, provide the Commission without undue delay with any information obtained 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article or any other information relevant for the implementation of Articles 8 and 9. 
Article 15 
Committee procedure 
1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee established by Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008. That 
committee shall be a committee within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 
2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 
3.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 8 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, in conjunction with 
Article 5 thereof, shall apply. 
Article 16 
Entry into force and application 
1.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
2.
It shall apply from the day following that on which Union law ceases to apply to the United Kingdom pursuant to 
Article 50(3) of the Treaty on European Union. 
However, Articles 7, 10(3) and 11(2) shall apply from the entry into force of this Regulation. 
3.
This Regulation shall not apply if a withdrawal agreement concluded with the United Kingdom in accordance with 
Article 50(2) of the Treaty on European Union has entered into force by the date referred to in the first subparagraph of 
paragraph 2. 
4.
This Regulation shall cease to apply on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(a)  the date on which a comprehensive agreement governing the provision of air transport with the United Kingdom, to 
which the Union is a party, enters into force, or, as the case may be, is provisionally applied; or 
(b)  30 March 2020. 
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/58 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Strasbourg, 25 March 2019. 
For the European Parliament 
The President 
A. TAJANI  
For the Council 
The President 
G. CIAMBA   
27.3.2019 
L 85 I/59 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
