COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 1318/2014 
of 11 December 2014 
amending Regulation (EC) No 474/2006 establishing the Community list of air carriers which are 
subject to an operating ban within the Community 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and the Council of 14 December 2005 on 
the establishment of a Community list of air carriers subject to an operating ban within the Community and on 
informing air passengers of the identity of the operating carrier, and repealing Article 9 of Directive 2004/36/CE (1), and 
in particular Article 4(2) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1)  
Commission Regulation (EC) No 474/2006 (2) established the Community list of air carriers which are subject to 
an operating ban within the Union, referred to in Chapter II of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005. 
(2)
In accordance with Article 4(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, some Member States and the European Avia­
tion Safety Agency (EASA) communicated to the Commission information that is relevant in the context of 
updating that list. Relevant information was also communicated by certain third countries. On the basis of that 
information, the Community list should be updated. 
(3)  
The Commission informed all air carriers concerned, either directly or through the authorities responsible for 
their regulatory oversight, about the essential facts and considerations which would form the basis for a decision 
to impose on them an operating ban within the Union or to modify the conditions of an operating ban imposed 
on an air carrier which is included in the Community list. 
(4)  
The Commission gave the air carriers concerned the opportunity to consult the documents provided by the 
Member States, to submit written comments and to make an oral presentation to the Commission and to the 
Committee established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 3922/1991 (3) (the ‘Air Safety Committee’). 
(5)  
The Air Safety Committee has received updates from the Commission about the ongoing joint consultations, in 
the framework of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 and its implementing Commission Regulation (EC) 
No 473/2006 (4), with competent authorities and air carriers of the states of Angola, Botswana, Georgia, the 
Republic of Guinea, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Lebanon, Libya, Madagascar, the Islamic 
Republic of Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, the Philippines, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sudan and Zambia. The Air 
Safety Committee also received information from the Commission on Afghanistan, Ghana, Iran and North Korea. 
The Air Safety Committee also received from the Commission updates about technical consultations with the 
Russian Federation. 
(6)  
The Air Safety Committee has heard presentations by EASA about the results of the analysis of audit reports 
carried out by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) in the framework of ICAO's Universal Safety 
Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP). Member States were invited to prioritise ramp inspections on air carriers 
licensed by states in respect of which Significant Safety Concerns (SSC) have been identified by ICAO or in 
respect of which EASA concluded that there are significant deficiencies in the safety oversight system. In addition 
to the consultations undertaken by the Commission under Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the prioritisation of 
ramp inspections will allow the acquisition of further information regarding the safety performance of the air 
carriers licensed in those states. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) OJ L 344, 27.12.2005, p. 15. 
(2) Commission Regulation (EC) No 474/2006 of 22 March 2006 establishing the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an 
operating ban within the Community referred to in Chapter II of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (OJ L 84, 23.3.2006, p. 14). 
(3) Council Regulation (EEC) No 3922/1991 of 16 December 1991 on the harmonization of the technical requirements and administrative 
procedures in the field of civil aviation (OJ L 373, 31.12.1991, p. 4). 
(4) Commission Regulation (EC) No 473/2006 of 22 March 2006 laying down implementing rules for the Community list of air carriers 
which are subject to an operating ban within the Community referred to in Chapter II of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 84, 23.3.2006, p. 8). 

(7)  
The Air Safety Committee has heard presentations by EASA about the results of the analysis of ramp inspections 
carried out under the Safety Assessment of Foreign Aircraft programme (SAFA) in accordance with Commission 
Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 (1). 
(8)  
The Air Safety Committee has also heard presentations by EASA about the technical assistance projects carried 
out in states affected by measures or monitoring under Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005. It was informed about 
the plans of EASA and requests for further technical assistance and cooperation to improve the administrative 
and technical capability of civil aviation authorities with a view to helping resolve any non-compliance with 
applicable international standards. Member States were also invited to respond to those requests on a bilateral 
basis in coordination with the Commission and EASA. In this regard, the Commission underlined the usefulness 
of providing information to the international aviation community, particularly through ICAO's SCAN database, 
on technical assistance provided by the Union and by its Member States, to improve aviation safety around the 
world. 
(9)  
The Air Safety Committee has also heard a presentation by Eurocontrol providing an update on the status of the 
SAFA alarming function and on the current statistics for alert messages for banned carriers. 
Union air carriers 
(10)  
Following the analysis by EASA of information resulting from ramp inspections carried out on aircraft of Union 
air carriers or from standardisation inspections carried out by EASA, as well as specific inspections and audits 
carried out by national aviation authorities, several Member States have taken certain enforcement measures and 
informed the Commission and the Air Safety Committee about those measures. Greece informed that the Hellenic 
CAA performed inspections on Gain Jet Aviation and Skygreece Airlines. On the occasion of the additional inspec­
tions no major problems were identified. 
(11)  
Should any relevant safety information indicate that there are imminent safety risks as a consequence of a lack of 
compliance by Union air carriers with the appropriate safety standards, Member States reiterated their readiness 
to act as necessary. 
Air carriers from Angola 
(12)  
Regulation (EC) No 474/2006, as amended by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1197/2011 (2), 
allows TAAG Angolan Airlines certified in Angola, to operate into the Union four aircraft of type Boeing 737-700 
with registration marks D2-TBF, D2-TBG, D2-TBH and D2- TBJ, three aircraft of type Boeing 777-200 with regis­
tration marks D2-TED, D2-TEE and D2-TEF, and two aircraft of type Boeing 777-300 with registration 
marks D2-TEG and D2-TEH. 
(13)  
TAAG Angolan Airlines has submitted on 21 November 2014, through the competent authorities of Angola 
(INAVIC), a request to add a new aircraft of type Boeing 777-300 to Annex B to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006. 
However, there are persistent difficulties to establish and maintain regular contact with INAVIC as well as with 
TAAG Angolan Airlines. These difficulties extend also to INAVIC's contacts with ICAO, which has led in the recent 
past to a number of cancellations of previously scheduled ICAO audits. This indicates that there are internal 
communication problems within both TAAG Angolan Airlines and INAVIC as well as between them, which makes 
it difficult to adequately assess whether the granting of the request by TAAG Angolan Airlines would entail safety 
risks. Therefore, the Commission considers that the most appropriate way to proceed is to request both INAVIC 
as well as TAAG Angolan Airlines to fully engage with the Commission in the near future, with a view to thor­
oughly reviewing the current safety situation in all its aspects, including with regard to the addition of new 
aircraft to the fleet of TAAG Angolan Airlines. 
(14)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including additional aircraft operated by TAAG Angolan Airlines. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/9 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 of 5 October 2012 laying down the technical requirements and administrative procedures 
related to air operations pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 296, 
25.10.2012, p. 1). 
(2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1197/2011 of 21 November 2011 (OJ L 303, 22.11.2011, p. 14). See in particular 
points 26 to 30 of the recitals of this Regulation. 

(15)  
Member States are to continue to verify effective compliance by TAAG Angolan Airlines with the relevant safety 
standards, through the prioritisation of ramp inspections to be carried out on aircraft of this air carrier pursuant 
to Regulation (EU) No 965/2012. 
Air carriers from Botswana 
(16)  
In April 2013, ICAO conducted an ICAO Coordinated Validation Mission (ICVM) in Botswana. The results of that 
ICVM were partly positive: the Effective Implementation improved. However, there was also a negative result, 
given that two SSCs were identified. Furthermore, since 2010, two accidents occurred with aircraft registered in 
Botswana. 
(17)
Based on the available information, the current lack of effective implementation of ICAO Standards and Recom­
mended Practices, the two SSCs, the two accidents and the intermittent communication between the Commission 
and the Civil Aviation Authority Botswana (CAAB), the Commission requested information as regards air carriers 
certified in Botswana in a letter of 8 July 2014 to CAAB. 
(18)
CAAB replied on 3 October 2014, providing the requested information with a view to showing the State's effec­
tive implementation of ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices and resolving the two SSCs. 
(19)  
On the basis of that information, it appears that CAAB would like ICAO to conduct another ICVM before the 
end of this year, in order to verify that the corrective actions that were taken are sufficient to resolve the 
two SSCs. 
(20)  
The assessment of the information provided further indicates that all air carriers were recertified and had been 
provided with new Air Operator Certificates (AOCs) on the same date. This will lead to a peak in workload for 
CAAB every time these AOCs need to be renewed. The CAAB has developed a surveillance program for the 
safety oversight of the air carriers, but the implementation of this program is behind schedule. Finally, during the 
oversight activities only a limited number of findings is recorded and as a consequence, it is difficult to determine 
the capacity of the CAAB to resolve emerging safety issues. In order to clarify these issues, additional information 
will be requested by the Commission and the CAAB will be invited by the Commission to a technical meeting to 
discuss any further details with respect to the safety oversight situation in Botswana. 
(21)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including air carriers from Botswana. 
Air carriers from Georgia 
(22)
Consultations with the competent authorities of Georgia (GCAA) continue with the aim of monitoring the imple­
mentation by GCAA of the corrective action plan developed in response to the SSC identified during the ICAO 
Comprehensive System Audit (CSA) of Georgia in October 2013. 
(23)  
On the basis of the information provided by GCAA relating to the actions being taken by GCAA to have the SSC 
lifted, the Commission did not deem it necessary to ask the GCAA to appear before the Air Safety Committee. 
The Commission reported to the Air Safety Committee about the implementation of the Corrective Action Plan 
developed by GCAA. 
(24)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including air carriers from Georgia. 
Air carriers from the Republic of Guinea 
(25)  
As agreed in the meeting held in Brussels in January 2013, the competent authorities of the Republic of Guinea 
(DNAC) have regularly provided information on the ongoing implementation of the Corrective Action Plan, 
which was approved by ICAO in December 2012, as well as all the activities linked to it. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

(26)  
The latest progress report, received on 21 October 2014, details the most recent activities and developments 
regarding the implementation of the Corrective Action Plan. The training of staff continues in order to further 
reinforce the oversight capacity, mainly in the areas of airworthiness and operations. DNAC has continued to 
address the remaining USOAP findings in terms of the associated protocol questions, through the use of ICAO's 
Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) online tool. Between the beginning of August and the end of September 
2014 ICAO has conducted an off-site validation of the protocol questions amenable to remote verification. As a 
result, the overall effective implementation of the eight critical elements showed a slight improvement. 
(27)
A legislative initiative to transform DNAC in an independent, financially and operationally autonomous civil avia­
tion authority, with its own management structure, is in preparation. The Civil Aviation Authority of Guinea 
(AGAC), fully in line with ICAO requirements, is expected to be enacted by January 2015. 
(28)
All previously existing AOCs were suspended at the end of March 2013. The full ICAO-compliant (5-phase) certi­
fication of the national air carrier PROBIZ Guinée, with one aircraft of type BE90, is still ongoing, with the help 
and support of a specific mission of the African Civil Aviation Conference/Banjul Accord Group Aviation Safety 
Oversight Organisation, including simultaneous on-the-job training of DNAC's inspectors on the whole process. 
Two other air carriers — Eagle Air Guinée and Sahel Aviation Service Guinée — have also initiated the certification 
process. DNAC, with the support of the regional ICAO Dakar office, expects to conclude the certification process 
for all three air carriers by the end of 2014. 
(29)  
DNAC requested an ICVM in order to validate the progress in the implementation of the Corrective Action Plan. 
ICAO had initially planned to conduct the ICVM in May 2014. Senior management changes at the Ministry of 
Transport caused a delay and the ICVM was tentatively planned for the second half of September 2014. The 
ongoing Ebola outbreak has now put the ICVM, as well as an ICAO assistance mission initially planned for July 
2014, on indefinite hold. 
(30)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including air carriers from the Republic of Guinea. 
(31)  
Should any relevant safety information indicate that there are imminent safety risks as a consequence of lack of 
compliance with international safety standards, the Commission may be forced to take action in accordance with 
Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005. 
Air carriers from India 
(32)  
On 7 November 2014, a technical meeting took place in Brussels. The Commission and EASA, as well as senior 
representatives from the Indian Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) attended the meeting. The meeting 
was held with respect to India's compliance with international safety and oversight obligations, including the deci­
sion by the United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to downgrade India's compliance status from cat­
egory 1 to category 2, as a result of deficiencies identified during an International Aviation Safety Assessment 
(IASA) audit. DGCA provided details pertaining to the status of its corrective actions to address the findings that 
resulted from the FAA compliance category downgrade. DGCA reiterated that it had taken action to address the 
majority of the FAA findings and that it has established a structured corrective action plan with respect to 
remaining areas of concern. In addition, in the technical meeting DGCA presented information pertaining to the 
issue of sustainability and the ongoing improvements in this regard. 
(33)
During that technical meeting DGCA gave its commitment to fully engage in a safety dialogue with the Commis­
sion, including through additional meetings if and when deemed necessary by the Commission. DGCA also 
committed to provide the Commission with any relevant safety information, as part of the official consultations 
with the authorities that have responsibility for regulatory oversight over the air carriers certified in India 
pursuant to the provisions laid out in Article 3(2) of Commission Regulation (EC) No 473/2006. 
(34)  
On the basis of the information provided at the technical meeting of 7 November 2014 and the commitments 
taken by DGCA on that occasion, the Commission does not deem it necessary at this stage to impose operating 
restrictions on Indian air carriers. 
(35)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including air carriers from India. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/11 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

(36)
Member States are to continue to verify the effective compliance with relevant safety standards through the prior­
itisation of ramp inspections to be carried out on Indian air carriers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 965/2012. 
Air carriers from Indonesia 
(37)  
Consultations with the competent authorities of Indonesia (DGCA) continue with the aim of monitoring the 
progress of DGCA in ensuring that the safety oversight of all air carriers certified in Indonesia is in compliance 
with international safety standards. 
(38)  
The efforts of DGCA to reach an aviation system fully compliant with ICAO standards are acknowledged. The 
necessary transparency shown by DGCA, as well as the willingness to share information, has also been noted. 
(39)  
ICAO performed a CSA in the period 5 to 14 May 2014. The final report of this audit became available on 
18 November 2014 and the results of the audit show that the safety oversight system in Indonesia still needs 
substantial improvement. DGCA has proposed a Corrective Action Plan to ICAO, in order to resolve the findings 
stemming from this audit. 
(40)  
In September 2014, the National Transportation Safety Committee of Indonesia published the final report on the 
Lion Air accident that occurred on 13 April 2013 in Bali. The comprehensive report gives an analysis of the acci­
dent and provides safety recommendations to the air carrier and the DGCA, amongst others. 
(41)  
At present, there is however no objective and conclusive evidence that the implementation of the Corrective 
Action Plan and safety recommendations are adequate. 
(42)  
In a letter of 20 October 2014, DGCA informed the Commission that four new air carriers had been certified 
since the last update, namely AOC No 121-042 had been issued to PT. MY INDO Airlines on 15 August 2014, 
AOC No 121-054 had been issued to PT Indonesia Air Asia Extra on 28 August 2014, AOC No 135-052 had 
been issued to PT. Elang Lintas Indonesia on 28 February 2014 and AOC No 135-053 had been issued to PT. 
Elang Nusantara Air on 12 March 2014. However, DGCA did not provide evidence that the safety oversight of 
those air carriers is ensured in compliance with international safety standards. 
(43)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to include those four air carriers in Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006. 
Air carriers from Kazakhstan 
(44)  
Consultations with the competent authorities of Kazakhstan (CAC) continue with the aim of monitoring the 
progress of CAC in ensuring that the safety oversight of all air carriers certified in Kazakhstan is in compliance 
with international aviation safety standards. 
(45)  
CAC informed the Commission of the developments related to the ICVM that took place from 27 May to 4 June 
2014 in Kazakhstan, including the status of the two SSCs identified by ICAO in 2009. In particular, CAC indi­
cated that one SSC pertaining to the issuance of certificates of airworthiness of aircraft was resolved, whilst a 
second one pertaining to the certification process for the issuance of AOCs was maintained. 
(46)  
Air Astana also provided its regular update on safety related developments within that air carrier, in particular 
regarding recent changes in its fleet that is at present allowed to operate in the Union. Most of the new additions 
are newly manufactured aeroplanes being leased in on a financial leasing basis. There is also a certain increase in 
the current and planned level of operations. 
(47)  
On the basis of the available information concerning the safety oversight system of Kazakhstan, it is considered 
that the Kazakh aviation authorities experience a shortage of sufficiently trained and experienced inspectors to 
lead certification tasks regarding AOCs and special authorisations and that they cannot at this stage ensure a 
continued oversight in the area of flight operations. The Kazakh authorities are therefore strongly encouraged to 
step up their efforts to reach compliance with international safety standards. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

(48)
The Commission and EASA intend to closely monitor the progress of CAC to hire, retain and qualify its inspec­
tors as well as the steps taken by the CAC to implement the CAP related to the remaining SSC. 
(49)  
On 29 September 2014, the Commission requested from CAC updated information regarding air carriers under 
CAC's oversight, in particular information relating to the revocation of AOCs. In its reply, CAC informed the 
Commission about the AOCs issued in Kazakhstan and provided evidence on the revocation of three AOCs, 
namely the AOCs of Jet One, Luk Aero and Air Trust Aircompany. 
(50)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to remove Jet One, Luk Aero and Air Trust Aircompany from Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006. 
(51)
Member States are to continue to verify the effective compliance with relevant safety standards through the prior­
itisation of ramp inspections to be carried out on aircraft of Air Astana pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
No 965/2012. 
Air carriers from the Kyrgyz Republic 
(52)  
By letters dated 18 October 2014 and 13 November 2014 the competent authority of the Kyrgyz Republic (KG 
CAA) provided updated information about the air carriers certified in that country, which are currently subject to 
an operating ban in the Union. According to these letters and the accompanying documentation, KG CAA has 
suspended the AOCs of four air carriers, namely Kyrgyz Airlines, SAEMES, Supreme Aviation and Click Airways, and 
it has revoked the AOC of Kyrgyz Trans Avia. Under the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic, the suspension of an 
AOC is equivalent to its revocation, when the holder of the suspended certificate has not applied for a certifica­
tion procedure within three months following the suspension. Kyrgyz Airlines, SAEMES, Supreme Aviation and Click 
Airways have not applied for such certification since the suspension of their AOC. Consequently, their AOCs can 
be deemed revoked. 
(53)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to remove Kyrgyz Airlines, SAEMES, Supreme Aviation, Click Airways and Kyrgyz Trans Avia from Annex A 
to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006. 
Air carriers from Lebanon 
(54)  
Consultations with the competent authorities of Lebanon (DGCA Lebanon) continue with the aim of confirming 
that Lebanon is addressing the deficiencies established by ICAO during the ICVM performed in Lebanon from 
5 to 11 December 2012. DGCA Lebanon has established a Corrective Action Plan and is in the process of 
carrying out those actions, particularly in relation to the SSC with respect to the certification of air carriers in 
Lebanon. 
(55)
During a technical meeting on 14 July 2014, DGCA Lebanon provided information on the change in its manage­
ment, the appointment of new staff both employed by DGCA Lebanon and seconded by Middle East Airlines, 
improved identification of the root causes for the SSC and the awareness at political level with respect to the 
improvements that need to be made in Lebanon. DGCA Lebanon provided the full list of current AOCs in 
Lebanon and information with respect to the renewal of AOC of two air carriers. 
(56)  
DGCA Lebanon informed the Commission that the report on the resolution of the SSC was sent to ICAO. 
However, at present, those corrective actions still have to be verified. 
(57)  
On 14 and 15 October 2014, an informal visit by the Commission to DGCA Lebanon took place. During this 
visit, Lebanon highlighted the progress made at the DGCA since July 2014, due in particular to good communi­
cation with the Union. Lebanon is taking seriously the SSC that was raised by the International Civil Aviation Or­
ganisation, and checked all AOCs. DGCA Lebanon stressed that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation now has 
full authority to monitor all safety aspects on all airlines, albeit that there is not yet an autonomous and 
adequately resourced civil aviation authority. Lebanon provided additional information on its Aviation Safety 
Action Plan on 9 November 2014, including plans for the further development of an autonomous civil aviation 
authority. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/13 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

(58)  
In light of the foregoing, consultations with the Lebanese authorities are to continue in accordance with 
Article 3(2) of Regulation (EC) No 473/2006. 
(59)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that at this stage there are no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including air carriers from Lebanon. 
(60)  
Should any relevant safety information indicate that there are imminent safety risks as a consequence of a lack of 
compliance with international safety standards, the Commission may be forced to take further action in accord­
ance with Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005. 
Air carriers from Libya 
(61)  
In April 2012, the competent authorities of Libya (LYCAA) agreed to restrict all air carriers certified in Libya 
from operating in the Union. The intention was to allow LYCAA time to re-certify those air carriers and to estab­
lish sufficient oversight capabilities to ensure compliance with international safety standards. 
(62)  
The Commission has monitored the effectiveness of those restrictions. The Commission has also carried out 
regular consultations with LYCAA on its progress in reforming its civil aviation safety system. 
(63)  
Until March 2014, some progress had been observed, both at the level of LYCAA as well as at the level of the 
main air carriers, Libyan Airlines and Afriqiyah Airways. However, certification of those air carriers took much 
longer than expected. 
(64)  
As the Commission stated in April 2014 (1), before LYCAA could be allowed to issue an authorisation to its 
carriers to operate in the Union, it should be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission that the re-certi­
fication process has been effectively completed and that there is sustainable continued oversight in accordance 
with ICAO standards. 
(65)  
However, the security situation in Libya deteriorated significantly in the course of June and July 2014, notably 
following the outbreak of violence on and around Tripoli International Airport. This unstable security situation 
continues to prevail. The violence has resulted in severe destruction of and damage to buildings, infrastructure 
and aircraft on the ground at Tripoli International Airport, rendering the airport as well as the local airspace 
unusable. 
(66)  
In view of the unclear status of the capabilities of LYCAA to properly oversee its air carriers following the 
violence and the lack of a stable and effective government, the Commission does no longer have the necessary 
confidence that LYCAA still has the authority to restrict Libyan air carriers from operating in the Union. In add­
ition, the Commission is not convinced of the ability of LYCAA to fulfil its international obligations with regard 
to safety oversight of its air carriers. The Commission is further concerned about the large number of aircraft 
damaged during the violence and questions whether their continuing airworthiness is being appropriately 
accounted for. 
(67)  
The oral presentation to the Commission and the Air Safety Committee, given by LYCAA on 25 November 2014, 
on its actions to ensure aviation safety in Libya made it clear that, despite the efforts undertaken by LYCAA 
under its current leadership, substantial concerns remain about imminent aviation safety risks not being suffi­
ciently contained. Those concerns are substantially reinforced by the ongoing instability. 
(68)  
Due to the unclear status of the capabilities of LYCAA to adequately oversee Libyan air carriers and to control 
imminent safety risks, it is assessed that LYCAA cannot fulfil its international obligations in relation to aviation 
safety. 
(69)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to include all air carriers certified in Libya in Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/14 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 368/2014 of 10 April 2014 (OJ L 108, 11.4.2014, p. 16). See in particular recital 64 of 
this Regulation. 

Air carriers from Madagascar 
(70)
Consultations with the competent authorities of Madagascar have continued actively with the purpose of moni­
toring the progress of these authorities in ensuring that the safety oversight of all air carriers certified in Mada­
gascar is in compliance with international safety standards. 
(71)  
The Commission, assisted by EASA, held a consultation meeting on 23 October 2014 with the competent 
authorities of Madagascar and representatives of the air carrier Air Madagascar. At this meeting, the air carrier 
provided information about its fleet evolution and in particular informed that two aircraft of type Boeing 737, 
which are mentioned in Annex B to Regulation (EU) No 474/2006, will be gradually replaced as of 2015 by 
aircraft of the same type, and that an aircraft of type ATR 72-600 will be added to the fleet during the first 
quarter of 2015. 
(72)  
On 10 November 2014, the air carrier Air Madagascar made the request to have Annex B modified, in order to 
allow operations of the new aircraft of type Boeing 737 that will replace the existing aircraft of type Boeing 737 
in its fleet, as well as the operations of the aircraft of type ATR 72-600 that will be added to the fleet. 
(73)  
Air Madagascar provided evidence that the safety performance of its fleet has improved. The competent authorities 
of Madagascar stated that, with regard to the operations conducted with the aircraft of type Boeing B737, they 
are satisfied with the current level of compliance demonstrated by Air Madagascar with respect to ICAO require­
ments. Member States and EASA confirmed that no specific concern arose from ramp checks carried out at 
Union airports in the framework of the SAFA programme. 
(74)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended with regard to Air Madagascar. Annex B to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006 should be amended to allow 
the operation of aircraft of type B737 series as well as aircraft of type ATR 72/42 series, that are or will be listed 
on the AOC of Air Madagascar. 
(75)
Member States will continue to verify the effective compliance with relevant safety standards through the prioriti­
sation of ramp inspections to be carried out on aircraft of Air Madagascar pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
No 965/2012. 
Air carriers from the Islamic Republic of Mauritania 
(76)  
EASA informed the Commission about reports showing serious safety deficiencies and a persistent failure by the 
air carrier Mauritania Airlines International (MAI) to address deficiencies identified by ramp inspections performed 
under the SAFA programme. Those deficiencies are related to flight preparation and performance calculations. 
Despite some improvement as regards the condition of aircraft, the nature and severity of the recent findings 
have a direct impact on the safety of operations and require corrective actions. 
(77)
The Commission has directly informed the competent national authorities (ANAC) and Mauritania Airlines Interna­
tional (MAI) about those deficiencies, in order for them to swiftly take mitigating actions. ANAC acknowledged 
receipt by reporting on a number of corrective actions and on the latest ICAO audit results in the areas of aero­
dromes and air navigation services. 
(78)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that at this stage there are no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including air carriers from the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. 
(79)  
Should any relevant safety information indicate that there are imminent safety risks as a consequence of a lack of 
compliance with international safety standards, the Commission may be forced to take further action in accord­
ance with Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/15 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Air carriers from Mozambique 
(80)
The competent authorities of Mozambique (IACM) have reported on the ongoing implementation of the Correc­
tive Action Plan submitted to, and approved by, ICAO. The latest progress report and its supporting documents 
received by the Commission and EASA on 26 September 2014 indicate that IACM has continued to work on the 
update of the legal framework by submitting legislative proposals to further align the civil aviation act with ICAO 
requirements, to have its role upgraded from one of a mere regulator to that of an authority and to further 
pursue the alignment of its existing regulations with the amended ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices 
(SARPS). The recruitment and training of staff continues, in order to further reinforce the oversight capacity, 
mainly in the areas of operations and licencing, aerodromes, airworthiness, rulemaking and enforcement. The 
internal capacity building efforts are strengthened through partnerships with African and European authorities, as 
well as with regional organisations. A gap analysis of the aerodrome certification has been conducted for all 
airports and a detailed plan for the certification of the international airports (Maputo, Beira and Nacala) has been 
requested, with a view to initiating the process in 2015. The State Safety Programme is being established and is 
expected to be completed by 2017. 
(81)  
IACM has continued to address the outstanding USOAP findings in terms of the associated protocol questions. In 
addition, many of the required regulations and procedures to support the replies have been produced and the 
associated documentation uploaded, through the use of ICAO's CMA online tool. The validation of these actions 
by ICAO is currently pending. 
(82)  
IACM has requested an ICVM in order to validate the progress in the implementation of its Corrective Action 
Plan, which is now scheduled to take place from 26 November until 4 December 2014, covering the areas of 
legislation, CAA organisation, aerodromes and air navigations services. 
(83)  
The significant progress reported by IACM in the rectification of the deficiencies identified by ICAO has been 
noted and its efforts towards completing their work of establishing an aviation system fully compliant with inter­
national standards are encouraged. Recognising the significant progress already achieved, and the expected 
further progress, a Union safety assessment mission might take place in the first quarter of 2015. However, for 
the time being, the fact remains that several important aviation safety-related issues still need to be fully and 
adequately addressed. 
(84)  
The investigation into the crash of the air carrier Linhas Aéreas de Moçambique SA (LAM) on 29 November 2013 
is still ongoing. The final accident investigation report is expected by the end of 2014. Following the accident, 
LAM has conducted an extensive review of internal safety and security training, mechanisms and procedures, 
resulting in the implementation of more demanding organisational and operational requirements. In parallel, the 
work has continued to further improve the Safety Management System (SMS), with a particular attention to flight 
data analysis and exchange. 
(85)  
IACM also reported that it has continued the certification process of air carriers in compliance with ICAO 
SARPS. According to the list provided by IACM, a new air carrier has been certified, namely Makond Lda. 
However, IACM was not able to provide evidence that the safety oversight of that air carrier is ensured in compli­
ance with international safety standards. 
(86)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to add the air carrier Makond Lda to Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006. 
Air carriers from Nepal 
(87)  
The Commission has continued consultations with the competent authority of Nepal (CAAN) to establish its 
capabilities to sufficiently implement and enforce the relevant international safety standards. 
(88)  
On the basis of a request by the Commission, CAAN submitted documentation relating to progress made with 
regard to safety oversight activities, including the deficiencies noted by the Union assessment visit to Nepal in 
February 2014, the ICAO SSC, as well as ICAO audits. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/16 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

(89)
The Commission and EASA had a meeting with CAAN on 24 September 2014. The meeting focussed in particu­
lar on the progress made in the areas of licencing of aircrew, certification of air carriers and oversight of air op­
erations. 
(90)  
However, it appears that the progress is insufficient and that more time is needed. In particular, there are 
concerns that the requirements for aircrew operating in a multi-crew environment have so far been inadequately 
addressed by CAAN, especially since lack of proper crew training is indicated as a probable cause in the accident 
report of the fatal accident on 16 February 2014. 
(91)  
In addition, concerns remain that the re-certification by CAAN of air carriers is inadequate and may be unsuitable 
to ensure that all Nepalese air carriers comply with international air safety requirements. CAAN is therefore 
encouraged to seek the assistance of appropriate subject matter experts to assess the process and verify its appro­
priateness and take actions as necessary. 
(92)  
A meeting between the Commission, EASA and Nepal Airlines Corporation, Buddha Air, Shree Airlines, Tara Air and 
Yeti Airlines was held on 11 November 2014 to review progress with regard to the observations of the Union on- 
site assessment visit, as well as other issues relating to improvement of air safety in Nepal. 
(93)  
The ability of certain air carriers to manage the risks of their operations, at a level which could indicate an ability 
to mitigate risks raised by insufficient oversight by CAAN, is considered encouraging. However, the Commission 
considers that at present the competent authorities of Nepal are unable to sufficiently implement and enforce the 
relevant international safety standards to a level which could justify an alleviation of the current operating ban. 
(94)  
It should also be noted that on 25 August 2014, the Commission wrote to CAAN to obtain updated information 
regarding air carriers under its oversight. In a letter of 10 September 2014, CAAN informed the Commission that 
one new air carrier had been certified since the last update, namely AOC No 082/2014 had been issued to 
Manang Air Pvt. Ltd. on 3 July 2014. However, CAAN did not provide the evidence that the safety oversight of 
this air carrier is ensured in compliance with international safety standards. 
(95)  
Air carriers which in the past had a separate AOC issued only for their international operations have now been 
issued with only one AOC covering all operations. For this reason, AOC No 058/2010 for Buddha Air (Internation­
al Operations) and AOC No 059/2010 for Shree Airlines (International Operations) have been revoked by CAAN. 
(96)  
In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to include Manang Air Pvt. in Annex A to regulation (EC) No 474/2006 and to remove Buddha Air 
(International Operations) and Shree Airlines (International Operations) from Annex A to Regulation (EC) 
No 474/2006. 
Air carriers from the Philippines 
(97)  
On 9 April 2014, the FAA announced its decision to upgrade the Philippines compliance status from category 2 
to category 1 in respect to its IASA audit programme. In a letter of 24 July 2014 to the Commission, the Civil 
Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) referred to the decision by the FAA to upgrade the Philippines 
compliance category. This letter also referred to the communication from ICAO that the Philippines had resolved 
the previously identified SSCs. Finally, the CAAP stated in this letter that its next objective was to have the oper­
ating ban lifted on the air carriers certified in the Philippines that were still subject to an operating ban within 
the Union. 
(98)  
In a letter of 22 September 2014 to CAAP, the Commission reiterated that any decision to remove air carriers 
certified in the Philippines from the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within 
the Union must be based on an evidence-based approach. In this respect a technical meeting was held on 
4 November 2014 with experts from the Commission and EASA as well as senior representatives from CAAP. 
(99)  
The evidence presented by CAAP before and during the technical meeting of 4 November 2014 included details 
of the current CAAP organisational structure as well as proposed improvements that would enhance its oversight 
capabilities. Information was also provided on the current surveillance activity which CAAP conducts on air 
carriers certified in the Philippines. CAAP also cited ongoing infrastructure improvements and provided an 
update on the further proposed development of its State Safety Programme (SSP). 
12.12.2014 
L 355/17 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

(100)  In its letter of 22 September 2014, the Commission also proposed that EASA would conduct an on-site technical 
assistance visit to the Philippines. This visit was conducted during the week of 10 November 2014. 
(101) The discussion and evidence provided by CAAP at the technical meeting of 4 November 2014 is deemed encour­
aging with regard to the progress that the competent authorities of the Philippines have made with respect to the 
oversight of air carriers certified in the Philippines. This opens the possibility for the organisation of an on-site 
Union verification mission in the future. 
(102) However, with regard to the CAAP objective to apply for a total lifting of the operating ban on air carriers certi­
fied in the Philippines, it needs to be underlined that this will necessitate a full evaluation of all relevant informa­
tion and that the outcome of the on-site Union verification will need to be satisfactory. 
(103)  In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union with respect to air carriers from the Philippines. 
(104)  Member States are to continue to verify effective compliance by Philippine Airlines and Cebu Pacific Air with the 
relevant safety standards, through the prioritisation of ramp inspections pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
No 965/2012. 
Air carriers from the Russian Federation 
(105)  The Commission, EASA and the Member States have continued to closely monitor the safety performance of air 
carriers certified in the Russian Federation and operating in the Union, including through prioritisation of the 
ramp inspections to be carried out on certain Russian air carriers in accordance with Regulation (EU) 
No 965/2012. 
(106)  On 15 July 2014, the Commission met with representatives of the air carrier Kogalymavia, in order to confirm 
the effectiveness of the measures taken by that air carrier to improve its safety record. Overall, the progress made 
by Kogalymavia appeared sustainable. That air carrier is encouraged to continue to establish a positive safety 
culture inside its organisation, including reporting of essential safety-related information. 
(107)  On 6 November 2014, the Commission, assisted by EASA and a Member State, met with representatives of the 
Russian Federal Air Transport Agency (FATA). The purpose of this meeting was to ensure that findings that have 
been raised against Russian air carriers during SAFA ramp inspections in the past 12 months are adequately 
addressed by those air carriers. During the meeting, FATA committed to further investigate the reasons for certain 
serious findings and to follow up on those cases where non-compliances have not yet been properly rectified. 
(108)  On 21 November 2014 FATA informed the Commission that it had advised its air carriers to timely address all 
open findings in the SAFA database and to apply corrective actions on a continuous basis, in order to avoid 
problems with regard to SAFA inspections and findings. 
(109)  Based on the available information, it was concluded that a hearing before the Air Safety Committee of the 
Russian aviation authorities or of air carriers certified in the Russian Federation was not necessary. 
(110)  In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union by including air carriers from the Russian Federation. 
(111) However, Member States are to continue to verify effective compliance by the air carriers for the Russian Federa­
tion with the international safety standards, through the prioritisation of ramp inspections in accordance with 
Regulation (EU) No 965/2012. Should those inspections point to an imminent safety risk as a consequence of 
non-compliance with the relevant safety standards, the Commission may be forced to take action against air 
carriers from the Russian Federation in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/18 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Air carriers from São Tomé and Príncipe 
(112)  After a long period without communication, on 22 September 2014 the competent authorities of São Tomé and 
Príncipe (INAC) reported on the progress achieved over that period of time. 
(113)  ICAO announced on 28 May 2014 the resolution of the SSCs pertaining to the air operator certification process 
and surveillance, and the ensuring of protection provided by aerodrome operators. As a consequence, São Tomé 
and Príncipe has now resolved all the previously identified SSCs. 
(114)  The Corrective Action Plan submitted by INAC is currently being implemented. The summary of its execution in 
mid-April 2014 shows that 20 % of the activities planned for implementation before the end of November 2014 
have been carried out as planned, while 25 % of those activities are still ongoing and the remaining 55 % have 
not yet started and have seen their target date significantly delayed. 
(115)  INAC has revoked the AOCs of eight air carriers, namely British Gulf International Company Ltd, Executive Jet Services, 
Global Aviation Operation, Goliaf Air, Island Oil Exploration, Transafrik International Ltd, Transcargo and Transliz Avia­
tion. INAC has provided written proof of the revocation of the AOCs of those air carriers. 
(116)  The Commission takes note of the positive developments reported by INAC and commends in particular the 
revocation of the AOCs of the air carriers which had their principal place of business outside of the country, as 
well as the removal of all their aircraft from the registry of São Tomé and Príncipe. 
(117)  In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to remove those air carriers from Annex A to Regulation (EC) No 474/2006. 
(118)  INAC also reported that AOCs have been issued to the air carriers STP Airways and Africa's Connection. However, 
INAC was not able to provide evidence that the safety oversight of those two air carriers is ensured in compliance 
with international safety standards. 
(119)  In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that the Community list of air carriers which are subject to an operating ban within the Union should be 
amended to include the air carriers STP Airways and Africa's Connection in Annex A to Regulation (EC) 
No 474/2006. 
Air carriers from Sudan 
(120)  The Sudan Civil Aviation Authority (SCAA) submitted to the Commission information on four air carriers, 
namely BADR Airlines (BDR), Nova Airlines (NOV), Sudan Airways (SUD) and Tarco Air (TRQ). The supporting 
documents indicate that those airlines have different levels in managing safety. Those documents nonetheless 
suggest that good progress has been made with a view to preparing a possible Union verification mission in 
2015. 
(121)  SCAA also informed the Commission of the results of the latest ICAO audit in the areas of aerodromes and air 
navigation services. Although those audits address areas that are mostly unrelated to the technical domains of the 
Union's primary concerns relating to the air carriers registered in Sudan, namely personnel licences, operations 
and airworthiness, this has shown that SCAA has endeavoured to tackle all issues of aviation safety in a holistic 
approach. 
(122)  It appears that SCAA has enacted sustainable improvements in a realistic and progressive manner. However, a 
thorough assessment still needs to be carried out in order to identify whether the international safety standards 
are met by the SCAA and the air carriers certified in Sudan. In addition, further verification through a Union veri­
fication mission needs to take place before any proposals for amendments to the Community list of air carriers, 
which are subject to an operating ban within the Union, might be considered. 
(123)  In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union with respect to air carriers from Sudan. 
12.12.2014 
L 355/19 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Air carriers from Zambia 
(124)  By letter of 15 May 2014, the Zambian Department of Civil Aviation reported to the Commission that the 
Zambia Civil Aviation Authority (ZCAA) is operational and that its administrative capacity is being reinforced. 
That letter also provided an update on the corrective actions taken to address the existing deficiencies, including a 
Safety Plan, which the Commission received on 5 August 2014. That Safety Plan sets out the additional actions 
that need to be taken to establish an efficient and effective safety regulatory and oversight system in Zambia and 
contains clear goals for the short, medium and long term. 
(125)  It appears that the Zambian Department of Civil Aviation has made progress and the Zambian authorities are 
encouraged to continue to make further improvements, with a view to the current restrictions being reconsidered 
at the appropriate moment after the necessary verification. However, for the time being, a number of important 
deficiencies remain, notably regarding the establishment of the ZCAA, including an adequate number of properly 
trained staff, and the update of legislation and regulations to implement the provisions of the ICAO Annexes 
which have been identified in the Safety Plan and in respect of which the corresponding actions are still to be 
carried out. 
(126)  In accordance with the common criteria set out in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore 
assessed that there are at this stage no grounds for amending the Community list of air carriers which are subject 
to an operating ban within the Union with respect to air carriers from Zambia. 
(127)  Article 8(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 recognises the need for decisions to be taken swiftly and, where 
appropriate, urgently, given the safety implications. It is therefore essential, for the protection of sensitive infor­
mation and for minimising commercial impacts, that the decisions in the context of updating the list of air 
carriers which are subject to an operating ban or restriction within the Union, are published and enter into force 
immediately after their adoption. 
(128)  Regulation (EC) No 474/2006 should therefore be amended accordingly, 
(129)  The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Air Safety Committee, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Regulation (EC) No 474/2006 is amended as follows: 
(1)  Annex A is replaced by the text set out in Annex A to this Regulation; 
(2)  Annex B is replaced by the text set out in Annex B to this Regulation. 
Article 2 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 11 December 2014. 
For the Commission, 
On behalf of the President, 
Violeta BULC 
Member of the Commission  
12.12.2014 
L 355/20 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

ANNEX A 
LIST OF AIR CARRIERS OF WHICH ALL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO A BAN WITHIN THE EU, WITH 
EXCEPTIONS (1) 
Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
BLUE WING AIRLINES 
SRBWA-01/2002 
BWI 
Suriname 
MERIDIAN AIRWAYS LTD 
AOC 023 
MAG 
Republic of Ghana 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Afghanistan, including   
Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan 
ARIANA AFGHAN AIRLINES 
AOC 009 
AFG 
Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan 
KAM AIR 
AOC 001 
KMF 
Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan 
PAMIR AIRLINES 
Unknown 
PIR 
Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan 
SAFI AIRWAYS 
AOC 181 
SFW 
Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Angola, with the exception of TAAG 
Angola Airlines put in Annex B, including   
Republic of Angola 
AEROJET 
AO 008-01/11 
TEJ 
Republic of Angola 
AIR GICANGO 
009 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
AIR JET 
AO 006-01/11-MBC 
MBC 
Republic of Angola 
AIR NAVE 
017 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
AIR26 
AO 003-01/11-DCD 
DCD 
Republic of Angola 
ANGOLA AIR SERVICES 
006 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
DIEXIM 
007 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
FLY540 
AO 004-01 FLYA 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
GIRA GLOBO 
008 
GGL 
Republic of Angola 
HELIANG 
010 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
12.12.2014 
L 355/21 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Air carriers listed in Annex A could be permitted to exercise traffic rights by using wet-leased aircraft of an air carrier which is not subject 
to an operating ban, provided that the relevant safety standards are complied with. 

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
HELIMALONGO 
AO 005-01/11 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
MAVEWA 
016 
Unknown 
Republic of Angola 
SONAIR 
AO 002-01/10-SOR 
SOR 
Republic of Angola 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Benin, including   
Republic of Benin 
AERO BENIN 
PEA No 014/MDCTTTATP- 
PR/ANAC/DEA/SCS 
AEB 
Republic of Benin 
AFRICA AIRWAYS 
Unknown 
AFF 
Republic of Benin 
ALAFIA JET 
PEA No 014/ANAC/ 
MDCTTTATP-PR/DEA/SCS 
Unknown 
Republic of Benin 
BENIN GOLF AIR 
PEA No 012/MDCTTP-PR/ 
ANAC/DEA/SCS. 
BGL 
Republic of Benin 
BENIN LITTORAL AIRWAYS 
PEA No 013/MDCTTTATP- 
PR/ANAC/DEA/SCS. 
LTL 
Republic of Benin 
COTAIR 
PEA No 015/MDCTTTATP- 
PR/ANAC/DEA/SCS. 
COB 
Republic of Benin 
ROYAL AIR 
PEA No 11/ANAC/ 
MDCTTP-PR/DEA/SCS 
BNR 
Republic of Benin 
TRANS AIR BENIN 
PEA No 016/MDCTTTATP- 
PR/ANAC/DEA/SCS 
TNB 
Republic of Benin 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of the Republic of Congo, including   
Republic of Congo 
AERO SERVICE 
RAC06-002 
RSR 
Republic of Congo 
CANADIAN AIRWAYS CONGO 
RAC06-012 
Unknown 
Republic of Congo 
EMERAUDE 
RAC06-008 
Unknown 
Republic of Congo 
EQUAFLIGHT SERVICES 
RAC 06-003 
EKA 
Republic of Congo 
EQUAJET 
RAC06-007 
EKJ 
Republic of Congo 
EQUATORIAL CONGO AIRLINES S.A. 
RAC 06-014 
Unknown 
Republic of Congo 
MISTRAL AVIATION 
RAC06-011 
Unknown 
Republic of Congo 
TRANS AIR CONGO 
RAC 06-001 
TSG 
Republic of Congo 
12.12.2014 
L 355/22 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), 
including   
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AFRICAN AIR SERVICE COMMUTER 
104/CAB/MIN/TVC/2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AIR BARAKA 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/002/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AIR CASTILLA 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/007/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AIR FAST CONGO 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0112/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AIR KASAI 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0053/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AIR KATANGA 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0056/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AIR MALEBO 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0122/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
AIR TROPIQUES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/00625/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
ARMI GLOBAL BUSINESS AIRWAYS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/029/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
BIEGA AIRWAYS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/051/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
BLUE AIRLINES 
106/CAB/MIN/TVC/2012 
BUL 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
BLUE SKY 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0028/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
BUSINESS AVIATION 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/048/09 
ABB 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
BUSY BEE CONGO 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0064/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
CETRACA 
105/CAB/MIN/TVC/2012 
CER 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
CHC STELLAVIA 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0078/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
COMPAGNIE AFRICAINE D'AVIATION (CAA) 409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0050/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
CONGO EXPRESS AIRLINES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/059/ 
2012 
CXR 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
DOREN AIR CONGO 
102/CAB/MIN/TVC/2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
12.12.2014 
L 355/23 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
EAGLES SERVICES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0196/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
EPHRATA AIRLINES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/040/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
FILAIR 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/037/ 
2008 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
FLY CONGO 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0126/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
GALAXY KAVATSI 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0027/ 
2008 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
GILEMBE AIR SOUTENANCE (GISAIR) 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0082/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
GOMA EXPRESS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0051/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
GOMAIR 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/011/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
GTRA 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0060/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
INTERNATIONAL 
TRANS 
AIR 
BUSINESS 
(ITAB) 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0065/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
JET CONGO AIRLINES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0011/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
KATANGA EXPRESS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0083/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
KATANGA WINGS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0092/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
KIN AVIA 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0059/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
KORONGO AIRLINES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/001/ 
2011 
KGO 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
LIGNES AERIENNES CONGOLAISES (LAC) 
Ministerial signature 
(ordonnance No. 78/205) 
LCG 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
MANGO AIRLINES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/009/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
MAVIVI AIR TRADE 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/00/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
OKAPI AIRLINES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/086/ 
2011 
OKP 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
PATRON AIRWAYS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0066/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
12.12.2014 
L 355/24 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
PEGASUS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/021/ 
2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
SAFE AIR 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/021/ 
2008 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
SERVICES AIR 
103/CAB/MIN/TVC/2012 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
SION AIRLINES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0081/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
STELLAR AIRWAYS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/056/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
SWALA AVIATION 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0084/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
TRACEP CONGO 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0085/ 
2010 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
TRANSAIR CARGO SERVICES 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/073/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
WALTAIR AVIATION 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/004/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
WILL AIRLIFT 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/0247/ 
2011 
Unknown 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
WIMBI DIRA AIRWAYS 
409/CAB/MIN/TVC/039/ 
2008 
WDA 
Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Djibouti, including   
Djibouti 
DAALLO AIRLINES 
Unknown 
DAO 
Djibouti 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Equatorial Guinea, including   
Equatorial Guinea 
CEIBA INTERCONTINENTAL 
2011/0001/MTTCT/DGAC/ 
SOPS 
CEL 
Equatorial Guinea 
CRONOS AIRLINES 
2011/0004/MTTCT/DGAC/ 
SOPS 
Unknown 
Equatorial Guinea 
PUNTO AZUL 
2012/0006/MTTCT/DGAC/ 
SOPS 
Unknown 
Equatorial Guinea 
TANGO AIRWAYS 
Unknown 
Unknown 
Equatorial Guinea 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Eritrea, including   
Eritrea 
12.12.2014 
L 355/25 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
ERITREAN AIRLINES 
AOC No 004 
ERT 
Eritrea 
NASAIR ERITREA 
AOC No 005 
NAS 
Eritrea 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of the Republic of Gabon, with the excep­
tion of Gabon Airlines, Afrijet and SN2AG 
put in Annex B, including   
Republic of Gabon 
AFRIC AVIATION 
010/MTAC/ANAC-G/DSA 
EKG 
Republic of Gabon 
AIR SERVICES SA 
004/MTAC/ANAC-G/DSA 
RVS 
Republic of Gabon 
AIR TOURIST (ALLEGIANCE) 
007/MTAC/ANAC-G/DSA 
LGE 
Republic of Gabon 
NATIONALE ET REGIONALE TRANSPORT 
(NATIONALE) 
008/MTAC/ANAC-G/DSA 
NRG 
Republic of Gabon 
SCD AVIATION 
005/MTAC/ANAC-G/DSA 
SCY 
Republic of Gabon 
SKY GABON 
009/MTAC/ANAC-G/DSA 
SKG 
Republic of Gabon 
SOLENTA AVIATION GABON 
006/MTAC/ANAC-G/DSA 
SVG 
Republic of Gabon 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Indonesia, with the exception of Garuda 
Indonesia, 
Airfast 
Indonesia, 
Mandala 
Airlines, Ekspres Transportasi Antarbenua 
and Indonesia Air Asia, including   
Republic of Indo­
nesia 
AIR BORN INDONESIA 
135-055 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
AIR PACIFIC UTAMA 
135-020 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
ALFA TRANS DIRGANTATA 
135-012 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
ANGKASA SUPER SERVICES 
135-050 
LBZ 
Republic of Indonesia 
ASCO NUSA AIR 
135-022 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
ASI PUDJIASTUTI 
135-028 
SQS 
Republic of Indonesia 
AVIASTAR MANDIRI 
121-043 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
12.12.2014 
L 355/26 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
AVIASTAR MANDIRI 
135-029 
VIT 
Republic of Indonesia 
BATIK AIR 
121-050 
BTK 
Republic of Indonesia 
CITILINK INDONESIA 
121-046 
CTV 
Republic of Indonesia 
DABI AIR NUSANTARA 
135-030 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
DERAYA AIR TAXI 
135-013 
DRY 
Republic of Indonesia 
DERAZONA AIR SERVICE 
135-010 
DRZ 
Republic of Indonesia 
DIRGANTARA AIR SERVICE 
135-014 
DIR 
Republic of Indonesia 
EASTINDO 
135-038 
ESD 
Republic of Indonesia 
ELANG LINTAS INDONESIA 
135-052 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
ELANG NUSANTARA AIR 
135-053 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
ENGGANG AIR SERVICE 
135-045 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
ERSA EASTERN AVIATION 
135-047 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
GATARI AIR SERVICE 
135-018 
GHS 
Republic of Indonesia 
HEAVY LIFT 
135-042 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
INDONESIA AIR ASIA EXTRA 
121-054 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
INDONESIA AIR TRANSPORT 
121-034 
IDA 
Republic of Indonesia 
INTAN ANGKASA AIR SERVICE 
135-019 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
JAYAWIJAYA DIRGANTARA 
121-044 
JWD 
Republic of Indonesia 
JOHNLIN AIR TRANSPORT 
135-043 
JLB 
Republic of Indonesia 
KAL STAR 
121-037 
KLS 
Republic of Indonesia 
KARTIKA AIRLINES 
121-003 
KAE 
Republic of Indonesia 
KOMALA INDONESIA 
135-051 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
KURA-KURA AVIATION 
135-016 
KUR 
Republic of Indonesia 
LION MENTARI AIRLINES 
121-010 
LNI 
Republic of Indonesia 
MANUNGGAL AIR SERVICE 
121-020 
MNS 
Republic of Indonesia 
12.12.2014 
L 355/27 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
MARTABUANA ABADION 
135-049 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
MATTHEW AIR NUSANTARA 
135-048 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
MERPATI NUSANTARA AIRLINES 
121-002 
MNA 
Republic of Indonesia 
MIMIKA AIR 
135-007 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
MY INDO AIRLINES 
121-042 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
NAM AIR 
121-058 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
NATIONAL UTILITY HELICOPTER 
135-011 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
NUSANTARA AIR CHARTER 
121-022 
SJK 
Republic of Indonesia 
NUSANTARA BUANA AIR 
135-041 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
PACIFIC ROYALE AIRWAYS 
121-045 
PRQ 
Republic of Indonesia 
PEGASUS AIR SERVICES 
135-036 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
PELITA AIR SERVICE 
121-008 
PAS 
Republic of Indonesia 
PENERBANGAN ANGKASA SEMESTA 
135-026 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
PURA WISATA BARUNA 
135-025 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
RIAU AIRLINES 
121-016 
RIU 
Republic of Indonesia 
SAYAP GARUDA INDAH 
135-004 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
SKY AVIATION 
121-028 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
SKY AVIATION 
135-044 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
SMAC 
135-015 
SMC 
Republic of Indonesia 
SRIWIJAYA AIR 
121-035 
SJY 
Republic of Indonesia 
SURVEI UDARA PENAS 
135-006 
PNS 
Republic of Indonesia 
SURYA AIR 
135-046 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
TRANSNUSA AVIATION MANDIRI 
121-048 
TNU 
Republic of Indonesia 
12.12.2014 
L 355/28 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
TRANSWISATA PRIMA AVIATION 
135-021 
TWT 
Republic of Indonesia 
TRAVEL EXPRESS AVIATION SERVICE 
121-038 
XAR 
Republic of Indonesia 
TRAVIRA UTAMA 
135-009 
TVV 
Republic of Indonesia 
TRI MG INTRA ASIA AIRLINES 
121-018 
TMG 
Republic of Indonesia 
TRIGANA AIR SERVICE 
121-006 
TGN 
Republic of Indonesia 
UNINDO 
135-040 
Unknown 
Republic of Indonesia 
WING ABADI AIRLINES 
121-012 
WON 
Republic of Indonesia 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Kazakhstan, with the exception of Air 
Astana, including   
Republic of Kazakh­
stan 
AIR ALMATY 
AK-0483-13 
LMY 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
ATMA AIRLINES 
AK-0469-12 
AMA 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
AVIA-JAYNAR/AVIA-ZHAYNAR 
AK-0467-12 
SAP 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
BEK AIR 
AK-0463-12 
BEK 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
BEYBARS AIRCOMPANY 
AK-0473-13 
BBS 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
BURUNDAYAVIA AIRLINES 
KZ-01/001 
BRY 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
COMLUX-KZ 
KZ-01/002 
KAZ 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
EAST WING 
KZ-01/007 
EWZ 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
EURO-ASIA AIR 
AK-0472-13 
EAK 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
FLY JET KZ 
AK-0477-13 
FJK 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
INVESTAVIA 
AK-0479-13 
TLG 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
IRTYSH AIR 
AK-0468-13 
MZA 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
12.12.2014 
L 355/29 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
JET AIRLINES 
KZ-01/003 
SOZ 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
KAZAIR JET 
AK-0474-13 
KEJ 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
KAZAIRTRANS AIRLINE 
AK-0466-12 
KUY 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
KAZAVIASPAS 
AK-0484-13 
KZS 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
PRIME AVIATION 
AK-0478-13 
PKZ 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
SCAT 
KZ-01/004 
VSV 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
ZHETYSU AIRCOMPANY 
AK-0470-12 
JTU 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of the Kyrgyz Republic, including   
Kyrgyz Republic 
AIR BISHKEK (formerly EASTOK AVIA) 
15 
EAA 
Kyrgyz Republic 
AIR MANAS 
17 
MBB 
Kyrgyz Republic 
AVIA TRAFFIC COMPANY 
23 
AVJ 
Kyrgyz Republic 
CENTRAL 
ASIAN 
AVIATION 
SERVICES 
(CAAS) 
13 
CBK 
Kyrgyz Republic 
HELI SKY 
47 
HAC 
Kyrgyz Republic 
AIR KYRGYZSTAN 
03 
LYN 
Kyrgyz Republic 
MANAS AIRWAYS 
42 
BAM 
Kyrgyz Republic 
S 
GROUP 
INTERNATIONAL 
(formerly 
S 
GROUP AVIATION) 
45 
INT 
Kyrgyz Republic 
SKY BISHKEK 
43 
BIS 
Kyrgyz Republic 
SKY KG AIRLINES 
41 
KGK 
Kyrgyz Republic 
SKY WAY AIR 
39 
SAB 
Kyrgyz Republic 
12.12.2014 
L 355/30 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
TEZ JET 
46 
TEZ 
Kyrgyz Republic 
VALOR AIR 
07 
VAC 
Kyrgyz Republic 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Liberia.   
Liberia 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Libya, including   
Libya 
AFRIQIYAH AIRWAYS 
007/01 
AAW 
Libya 
AIR LIBYA 
004/01 
TLR 
Libya 
BURAQ AIR 
002/01 
BRQ 
Libya 
GHADAMES AIR TRANSPORT 
012/05 
GHT 
Libya 
GLOBAL AVIATION AND SERVICES 
008/05 
GAK 
Libya 
LIBYAN AIRLINES 
001/01 
LAA 
Libya 
PETRO AIR 
025/08 
PEO 
Libya 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of the Republic of Mozambique, including   
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
AERO-SERVIÇOS SARL 
MOZ-08 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
CFM 
— 
TRABALHOS 
E 
TRANSPORTES 
AÉREOS LDA 
MOZ-07 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
COA — COASTAL AVIATION 
MOZ-15 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
CPY — CROPSPRAYERS 
MOZ-06 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
CRA — CR AVIATION LDA 
MOZ-14 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
EMÍLIO AIR CHARTER LDA 
MOZ-05 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
ETA 
— 
EMPRESA 
DE 
TRANSPORTES 
AÉREOS LDA 
MOZ-04 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
12.12.2014 
L 355/31 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
HCP — HELICÓPTEROS CAPITAL LDA 
MOZ-11 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
KAY — KAYA AIRLINES, LDA 
MOZ-09 
KYY 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
LAM — LINHAS AÉREAS DE MOÇAMBIQUE 
S.A. 
MOZ-01 
LAM 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
MAKOND, LDA 
MOZ-20 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
MEX — MOÇAMBIQUE EXPRESSO, SARL 
MEX 
MOZ-02 
MXE 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
OHI — OMNI HELICÓPTEROS INTERNA­
TIONAL LDA 
MOZ-17 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
SAF — SAFARI AIR LDA 
MOZ-12 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
SAM — SOLENTA AVIATION MOZAM­
BIQUE, SA 
MOZ-10 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
TTA 
— 
TRABALHOS 
E 
TRANSPORTES 
AÉREOS LDA 
MOZ-16 
TTA 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
UNIQUE AIR CHARTER LDA 
MOZ-13 
Unknown 
Republic of Mozam­
bique 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Nepal, including   
Republic of Nepal 
AIR DYNASTY HELI. S. 
035/2001 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
AIR KASTHAMANDAP 
051/2009 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
BUDDHA AIR 
014/1996 
BHA 
Republic of Nepal 
FISHTAIL AIR 
017/2001 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
GOMA AIR 
064/2010 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
MAKALU AIR 
057A/2009 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
MANANG AIR PVT LTD 
082/2014 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
MOUNTAIN HELICOPTERS 
055/2009 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
MUKTINATH AIRLINES 
081/2013 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
12.12.2014 
L 355/32 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
NEPAL AIRLINES CORPORATION 
003/2000 
RNA 
Republic of Nepal 
SHREE AIRLINES 
030/2002 
SHA 
Republic of Nepal 
SIMRIK AIR 
034/2000 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
SIMRIK AIRLINES 
052/2009 
RMK 
Republic of Nepal 
SITA AIR 
033/2000 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
TARA AIR 
053/2009 
Unknown 
Republic of Nepal 
YETI AIRLINES DOMESTIC 
037/2004 
NYT 
Republic of Nepal 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of the Philippines, with the exception of 
Philippine Airlines and Cebu Pacific Air, 
including:   
Republic of the 
Philippines 
AEROEQUIPEMENT AVIATION 
2010037 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
AIR ASIA PHILIPPINES 
2012047 
APG 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
AIR JUAN AVIATION 
2013053 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
AIR PHILIPPINES CORPORATION 
2009006 
GAP 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ASIA AIRCRAFT OVERSEAS PHILIPPINES 
INC. 
2012048 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ASIAN AEROSPACE CORPORATION 
2012050 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ASTRO AIR INTERNATIONAL 
2012049 
AAV 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
AYALA AVIATION CORP. 
4AN9900003 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
CANADIAN HELICOPTERS PHILIPPINES INC. 
2010026 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
CM AERO SERVICES 
20110401 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
CYCLONE AIRWAYS 
2010034 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
12.12.2014 
L 355/33 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
FAR EAST AVIATION SERVICES 
2009013 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
INAEC AVIATION CORP. 
2010028 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
INTERISLAND AIRLINES 
2010023 
ISN 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ISLAND AVIATION 
2009009 
SOY 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ISLAND TRANSVOYAGER 
2010022 
ITI 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
LION AIR 
2009019 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
MACRO ASIA AIR TAXI SERVICES 
2010029 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
MAGNUM AIR 
2012051 
MSJ 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
MISIBIS AVIATION & DEVELOPMENT CORP 
2010020 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
NORTHSKY AIR INC. 
2011042 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
OMNI AVIATION CORP. 
2010033 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ROYAL AIR CHARTER SERVICES INC. 
2010024 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ROYAL STAR AVIATION, INC. 
2010021 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
SOUTH EAST ASIAN AIRLINES 
2009 004 
SRQ 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
SOUTH EAST ASIAN AIRLINES (SEAIR) 
INTERNATIONAL 
2012052 
SGD 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
SOUTHERN AIR FLIGHT SERVICES 
2011045 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
SUBIC SEAPLANE, INC. 
2011035 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
WCC AVIATION COMPANY 
2009015 
Unknown 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
ZEST AIRWAYS INCORPORATED 
2009003 
EZD 
Republic of the Philip­
pines 
12.12.2014 
L 355/34 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Sao Tome and Principe, including   
Sao Tome and Prin­
cipe 
AFRICA'S CONNECTION 
10/AOC/2008 
ACH 
Sao Tome and Principe 
STP AIRWAYS 
03/AOC/2006 
STP 
Sao Tome and Principe 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Sierra Leone, including   
Sierra Leone 
AIR RUM, LTD 
UNKNOWN 
RUM 
Sierra Leone 
DESTINY AIR SERVICES, LTD 
UNKNOWN 
DTY 
Sierra Leone 
HEAVYLIFT CARGO 
UNKNOWN 
Unknown 
Sierra Leone 
ORANGE AIR SIERRA LEONE LTD 
UNKNOWN 
ORJ 
Sierra Leone 
PARAMOUNT AIRLINES, LTD 
UNKNOWN 
PRR 
Sierra Leone 
SEVEN FOUR EIGHT AIR SERVICES LTD 
UNKNOWN 
SVT 
Sierra Leone 
TEEBAH AIRWAYS 
UNKNOWN 
Unknown 
Sierra Leone 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Sudan, including   
Republic of Sudan 
ALFA AIRLINES 
54 
AAJ 
Republic of the Sudan 
ALMAJAL AVIATION SERVICE 
15 
MGG 
Republic of the Sudan 
BADER AIRLINES 
35 
BDR 
Republic of the Sudan 
BENTIU AIR TRANSPORT 
29 
BNT 
Republic of the Sudan 
BLUE BIRD AVIATION 
11 
BLB 
Republic of the Sudan 
DOVE AIRLINES 
52 
DOV 
Republic of the Sudan 
ELIDINER AVIATION 
8 
DND 
Republic of the Sudan 
FOURTY EIGHT AVIATION 
53 
WHB 
Republic of the Sudan 
12.12.2014 
L 355/35 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

Name of the legal entity of the air carrier as 
indicated on its AOC (and its trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator Certificate (‘AOC’) 
Number or Operating Licence 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the Operator 
GREEN FLAG AVIATION 
17 
Unknown 
Republic of the Sudan 
HELEJETIC AIR 
57 
HJT 
Republic of the Sudan 
KATA AIR TRANSPORT 
9 
KTV 
Republic of the Sudan 
KUSH AVIATION 
60 
KUH 
Republic of the Sudan 
MARSLAND COMPANY 
40 
MSL 
Republic of the Sudan 
MID AIRLINES 
25 
NYL 
Republic of the Sudan 
NOVA AIRLINES 
46 
NOV 
Republic of the Sudan 
SUDAN AIRWAYS 
1 
SUD 
Republic of the Sudan 
SUN AIR COMPANY 
51 
SNR 
Republic of the Sudan 
TARCO AIRLINES 
56 
TRQ 
Republic of the Sudan 
All air carriers certified by the authorities 
with responsibility for regulatory oversight 
of Zambia, including   
Zambia 
ZAMBEZI AIRLINES 
Z/AOC/001/2009 
ZMA 
Zambia   
12.12.2014 
L 355/36 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     

ANNEX B 
LIST OF AIR CARRIERS OF WHICH OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS 
WITHIN THE EU (1) 
Name of the legal 
entity of the air 
carrier as indicated 
on its AOC (and its 
trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator 
Certificate 
(‘AOC’) 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the 
Operator 
Aircraft type restricted 
Registration mark(s) and, 
when available, 
construction serial 
number(s) of restricted 
aircraft 
State of 
registry 
TAAG ANGOLA 
AIRLINES 
001 
DTA 
Republic of 
Angola 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 5 aircraft 
of type Boeing B777 
and 4 aircraft of type 
Boeing B737-700. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: D2-TED, 
D2-TEE, D2-TEF, D2- 
TEG, D2-TEH, D2-TBF, 
D2-TBG, D2-TBH, D2- 
TBJ. 
Republic of 
Angola 
AIR ASTANA (1) 
AK-0475-13 KZR 
Kazakhstan 
All fleet with the 
exception of: aircraft of 
type Boeing B767, 
aircraft of type Boeing 
B757, aircraft of type 
Airbus A319/320/321. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: aircraft 
within the Boeing 
B767 fleet, as 
mentioned on the 
AOC; aircraft within 
the Boeing B757 fleet, 
as mentioned on the 
AOC; aircraft within 
the Airbus A319/320/ 
321 fleet, as mentioned 
on the AOC. 
Aruba 
(Kingdom of 
the Nether­
lands) 
AIR SERVICE 
COMORES 
06-819/TA- 
15/DGACM 
KMD 
Comoros 
All fleet with the 
exception of: LET 410 
UVP. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: D6-CAM 
(851336). 
Comoros 
AFRIJET (2) 
002/MTAC/ 
ANAC-G/ 
DSA 
ABS 
Republic of 
Gabon 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 2 aircraft 
of type Falcon 50, 2 
aircraft of type Falcon 
900. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: TR-LGV; 
TR-LGY; TR-AFJ; TR- 
AFR. 
Republic of 
Gabon 
GABON 
AIRLINES (3) 
001/MTAC/ 
ANAC 
GBK 
Republic of 
Gabon 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 1 aircraft 
of type Boeing B767- 
200. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: TR-LHP. 
Republic of 
Gabon 
NOUVELLE AIR 
AFFAIRES 
GABON (SN2AG) 
003/MTAC/ 
ANAC-G/ 
DSA 
NVS 
Republic of 
Gabon 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 1 aircraft 
of type Challenger CL- 
601, 1 aircraft of type 
HS-125-800. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: TR-AAG, 
ZS-AFG. 
Republic of 
Gabon; 
Republic of 
South Africa 
AIRLIFT INTER­
NATIONAL (GH) 
LTD 
AOC 017 
ALE 
Republic of 
Ghana 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 2 aircraft 
of type DC8-63F. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 9G-TOP 
and 9G-RAC. 
Republic of 
Ghana 
12.12.2014 
L 355/37 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Air carriers listed in Annex B could be permitted to exercise traffic rights by using wet-leased aircraft of an air carrier which is not subject 
to an operating ban, provided that the relevant safety standards are complied with. 

Name of the legal 
entity of the air 
carrier as indicated 
on its AOC (and its 
trading name, if 
different) 
Air Operator 
Certificate 
(‘AOC’) 
Number 
ICAO airline 
designation 
number 
State of the 
Operator 
Aircraft type restricted 
Registration mark(s) and, 
when available, 
construction serial 
number(s) of restricted 
aircraft 
State of 
registry 
IRAN AIR (4) 
FS100 
IRA 
Islamic 
Republic of 
Iran 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 
14 aircraft of type 
Airbus A300, 8 aircraft 
of type Airbus A310, 1 
aircraft Boeing B737.  
All fleet with the 
exception of: 
EP-IBA, 
EP-IBB, 
EP-IBC, 
EP-IBD, 
EP-IBG, 
EP-IBH, 
EP-IBI, 
EP-IBJ, 
EP-IBM, 
EP-IBN, 
EP-IBO, 
EP-IBS, 
EP-IBT, 
EP-IBV, 
EP-IBX, 
EP-IBZ, 
EP-ICE, 
EP-ICF, 
EP-IBK, 
EP-IBL, 
EP-IBP, 
EP-IBQ, 
EP-AGA. 
Islamic 
Republic of 
Iran 
AIR KORYO 
GAC-AOC/ 
KOR-01 
KOR 
Democratic 
People's 
Republic of 
Korea 
All fleet with the 
exception of: 2 aircraft 
of type TU- 204. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: P-632, P- 
633. 
Democratic 
People's 
Republic of 
Korea 
AIR MADA­
GASCAR 
5R-M01/ 
2009 
MDG 
Madagascar 
All fleet with the 
exception of: aircraft of 
type Boeing B737, 
aircraft of type ATR 
72/42 and 3 aircraft of 
type DHC 6-300. 
All fleet with the 
exception of: aircraft 
within the Boeing 
B737 fleet, as 
mentioned on the 
AOC, aircraft within 
the ATR 72/42 fleet, as 
mentioned on the 
AOC; 5R-MGC, 5R- 
MGD, 5R-MGF. 
Republic of 
Madagascar 
(1)  Air Astana is only allowed to use the specific aircraft types mentioned, provided that they are registered in Aruba and that all changes to the AOC 
are timely submitted to the Commission and to Eurocontrol. 
(2)  Afrijet is only allowed to use the specific aircraft mentioned for its current level of operations within the Union. 
(3)  Gabon Airlines is only allowed to use the specific aircraft mentioned for its current level of operations within the Union. 
(4)  Iran Air is allowed to operate to the Union using the specific aircraft under the conditions set out in Recital (69) of Regulation (EU) No 590/2010, 
OJ L 170, 6.7.2010, p. 15.   
12.12.2014 
L 355/38 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN