3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/1
EN
I
(Legislative acts)
REGULATIONS
COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2020/686
of 17 December 2019
supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the 
approval of germinal product establishments and the traceability and animal health requirements for 
movements within the Union of germinal products of certain kept terrestrial animals
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on transmissible 
animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the area of animal health (‘Animal Health Law’) (1), and in particular 
Article 94(3), Article 97(2), Article 101(3), Article 106(1), Article 122(1) and (2), Article 131(1), Article 160(1) and (2), 
Article 161(6), Article 162(3) and (4), Article 163(5), Article 164(2), Article 165(3) and Article 279(2) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)	
Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which are transmissible 
to animals or to humans. Those rules provide, inter alia, for the registration and approval of germinal product 
establishments, and for the traceability and animal health requirements for movements of consignments of germinal 
products within the Union. Regulation (EU) 2016/429 also empowers the Commission to adopt rules to supplement 
certain non-essential elements of that Regulation by means of delegated acts. It is therefore appropriate to adopt such 
rules in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the system in the new legal framework established by Regulation 
(EU) 2016/429.
(2)	
The rules laid down in this Regulation are required to supplement those laid down in Chapters 1, 2 and 5 of Title I 
of Part IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, as regards the approval of germinal product establishments, the registers of 
germinal product establishments to be kept by the competent authorities, the record-keeping obligations of operators, 
the traceability and animal health requirements, and animal health certification and notification requirements for 
movements within the Union of consignments of germinal products of certain kept terrestrial animals in order to 
prevent the spread of transmissible animal diseases within the Union by those products.
(3)	
These rules are substantively linked and many are intended to be applied in tandem. In the interests of simplicity and 
transparency, as well as to facilitate their application and to avoid a multiplication of rules, they therefore should be laid 
down in a single act rather than in a number of separate acts with many cross-references and the risk of duplication.
(1)	 OJ L 84, 31.3.2016, p. 1.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/2
EN
3.6.2020
(4)	
Indeed, Regulation (EU) 2016/429 aims at providing a simpler and more flexible regulatory framework than previously 
existed, while at the same time ensuring a more risk-based approach to animal health requirements, enhanced disease 
preparedness, prevention and control of animal diseases. It was also adopted in order to ensure that the rules concerning 
animal diseases were laid down mainly in a single act, as opposed to being scattered in a number of different acts. The 
rules laid down in this Regulation concerning germinal products also follow the same approach.
(5)	
Prior to the adoption of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, Union rules on germinal products were laid down in Council 
Directives 88/407/EEC (2), 89/556/EEC (3), 90/429/EEC (4) and 92/65/EEC (5). Regulation (EU) 2016/429 repeals 
and replaces those four Directives with effect from 21 April 2021. Those Directives laid down the animal health 
conditions for trade within the Union and for the entry into the Union of consignments of semen, ova and embryos 
of bovine, ovine, caprine, porcine and equine animals and in principle of certain other animal species. The rules laid 
down in those Directives have proven to be effective in preventing the spread of transmissible animal diseases within 
the Union. Accordingly, the main substance of those rules should be maintained, but updated to take account of the 
experience gained in their application and current scientific knowledge.
(6)	
Germinal products, and in particular semen, but also to a lesser extent oocytes and embryos may represent an important 
risk for the spread of animal diseases. They are collected or produced from a limited number of donors, but are used 
widely in the general animal population so they can, if not handled properly or not classified with the correct health 
status, be a source of disease for a large number of animals. Such cases have occurred in the past and have caused 
substantial economic losses.
(7)	
To prevent the risk of the spread of disease, Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that germinal products should be 
collected, produced, processed and stored at specialised germinal product establishments and be subject to special 
animal health and hygiene regimes. At the same time, in order for animals to be admitted into those germinal product 
establishments and be classified as donors of germinal products which may be moved between Member States, they 
are required to comply with higher animal health standards than those applicable to the general animal population. 
Regulation (EU) 2016/429 also lays down specific procedures to ensure the traceability of those germinal products 
and a special set of animal health requirements apply to their movements within the Union. Within this framework, 
it is appropriate to lay down in this Regulation rules with regard to the movements of consignments of germinal 
products on the basis of several empowering provisions laid down in Regulation (EU) 2016/429 which provide for 
the Commission to adopt delegated acts, and in particular those laid down in Part IV thereof.
(8)	
Article 160(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides for the Commission to adopt delegated acts laying down animal 
health requirements for movements to other Member States of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
and equine animals. One of the conditions for such movements is that those germinal products must come from a 
germinal product establishment approved for that purpose in accordance with conditions to be laid down in a delegated 
act. Furthermore, Article 94(3)(c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides for the Commission to adopt delegated acts 
concerning the special rules for the cessation of activities of germinal product establishments previously approved 
in accordance with the conditions laid down in a delegated act. At the same time, Article 101(3) of that Regulation 
provides for the Commission to adopt delegated acts on the detailed information to be included in the registers of 
registered and approved germinal product establishments kept by the competent authority, which will also include 
germinal product establishments which have ceased their activity.
(9)	
As the animal health requirements and derogations to be adopted pursuant to those provisions of Regulation (EU) 
2016/429 all relate to movements of germinal products of kept terrestrial animals within the Union, albeit pertaining 
to a number of different species, in the interests of simplication of Union rules, they should be laid down in a single 
delegated act, rather than scattered in a number of different delegated acts.
(2)	 Council Directive 88/407/EEC of 14 June 1988 laying down the animal health requirements applicable to intra-Community trade in and 
imports of semen of domestic animals of the bovine species (OJ L 194, 22.7.1988, p. 10).
(3)	 Council Directive 89/556/EEC of 25 September 1989 on animal health conditions governing intra-Community trade in and importation 
from third countries of embryos of domestic animals of the bovine species (OJ L 302, 19.10.1989, p. 1).
(4)	 Council Directive 90/429/EEC of 26 June 1990 laying down the animal health requirements applicable to intra-Community trade in and 
imports of semen of domestic animals of the porcine species (OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 62).
(5)	 Council Directive 92/65/EEC of 13 July 1992 laying down animal health requirements governing trade in and imports into the Community 
of animals, semen, ova and embryos not subject to animal health requirements laid down in specific Community rules referred to in 
Annex A (I) to Directive 90/425/EEC (OJ L 268, 14.9.1992, p. 54).

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/3
EN
(10)	
Article 162(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down requirements concerning the minimum information to be 
included in animal health certificates for movements between Member States of germinal products of bovine, porcine, 
ovine, caprine and equine animals. They must include information on the marking of the germinal products, when 
so required by Article 121(1) of that Regulation or by any rules laid down in delegated acts adopted pursuant to 
Article 122(1) thereof, and the information needed to demonstrate that the germinal products fulfil the movement 
requirements as provided for in Articles 157 and 159 of that Regulation or by rules set out in delegated acts adopted 
pursuant to Article 160 thereof. Article 162(3) of that Regulation provides for delegated acts to be adopted concerning 
the information to be contained in the animal health certificates. At the same time, Article 163(5) thereof provides 
for delegated acts to be adopted on the notification requirements for movements between Member States of germinal 
products of certain kept terrestrial animals, accompanied by an animal health certificate whose content is to be 
established in accordance with Article 162(3) and (4) of that Regulation.
(11)	
Article 94(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and 
equine animals may be moved to another Member State if those germinal products were collected at germinal product 
establishments which have been approved by the competent authorities in accordance with Article 97(1) thereof. Such 
approval may only be granted if those germinal product establishments comply with particular requirements relating to 
quarantine, isolation and other biosecurity measures, surveillance, facilities and equipment, as well as responsibilities, 
competence and specialised training of personnel and veterinarians. Therefore, based on those requirements, it 
is necessary to set out in this Regulation the detailed rules and conditions for the approval of germinal product 
establishments for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals from which germinal products of those animals 
may be moved to another Member State.
(12)	
Directive 92/65/EEC provides that semen of ovine and caprine animals, which is to be moved to another Member 
State, may be collected at the establishment of origin of those animals instead of at a semen collection centre. This 
Regulation should provide for a similar derogation. However, special conditions for movements of consignments of 
such semen, including the purpose of such movements and the consent of the Member State of destination, should 
be established. Therefore, based on the possible risk posed by the movement of such semen, the rules and conditions 
authorising such derogations should be laid down in this Regulation.
(13)	
The collection of equine semen has its own particular characteristics due to the special breeding system of equine 
animals which takes account of the participation of such animals in dedicated equine competitions, shows and other 
equestrian events. Currently, Directive 92/65/EEC provides for three types of residency of stallions at semen collection 
centres. The main rules laid down in the current system provided for in that Directive should be maintained in this 
Regulation. However, the conditions for the testing programme as specified in point 1.6(b) of Chapter II(I) of Annex D 
to Directive 92/65/EEC for donors which may leave the semen collection centre occasionally and for the testing 
programme as specified in point 1.6(c) of Chapter II(I) of Annex D to Directive 92/65/EEC for ‘walk-in stallions’, 
should be improved and strengthened in this Regulation.
(14)	
This Regulation should also provide for germinal product storage centres storing germinal products of any type 
and originating from more than one species, under one unique approval number and subject to rules that ensure 
traceability, as there are no animal health reasons requiring separate storage centres per type of germinal product or 
per species. Information on the types and species of stored germinal products should be specified in the approval of 
such establishments and in the publicly available register of approved germinal product establishments kept by the 
competent authorities. This Regulation should also lay down specific provisions on the storage of fresh, chilled and 
frozen semen.
(15)	
The continual progress in germinal products processing techniques has lead to the establishment of specialised units 
for that purpose. Those units not only process germinal products, including sex-sorting of semen, but they also 
prepare the final product ready for use or for storage. Therefore, such units should be considered to be germinal 
product establishments where the processing and storage of germinal products takes place. However, as equipment for 
sex-sorting of semen is costly, semen collection centres may use services of other operators for processing, including 
sex-sorting, of semen. In that case, semen is sent out for processing and is then returned to the semen collection centre 
of origin. Therefore, it is appropriate to lay down in this Regulation rules for the processing of germinal products, 
including the possibility for their processing at germinal product processing establishments, as well as detailed rules for 
the transport and the marking of semen and other germinal products to and from such germinal product processing 
establishments. Where semen is processed at a germinal product processing establishment, a marking on the straw 
or another package should include the approval or registration number of both the semen collection centre and the 
germinal product processing establishment in order to ensure traceability of the semen.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/4
EN
3.6.2020
(16)	
While antibiotics should be used prudently, at the same time, in particular with a view to possible international 
trade, the inclusion of antibiotics in semen diluents should be in line with the provisions of Article 4.6.7 of the 
Terrestrial Animal Health Code (‘the Code’) of the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), Edition 2017 (6). In 
accordance with Directive 88/407/EEC, there is an obligation to add to bovine semen antibiotics that are effective against 
campylobacters, leptospires and mycoplasmas, and in accordance with Directive 90/429/EEC there is an obligation 
to add to porcine semen antibotics which are effective against leptospires, while Directive 92/65/EEC provides for 
the voluntary use of antibiotics. This Regulation should maintain the rules for the usage of antibiotics laid down in 
Directives 88/407/EEC, 90/429/EEC and 92/65/EEC, as well as those recommended by the OIE. Where antibiotics 
are are added to semen, information about the active substance(s) and their concentration should be indicated in the 
accompanying health certificate.
(17)	
Article 101(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that each competent authority should establish and keep up-to-
date registers of registered germinal product establishments and of approved germinal product establishments which 
should be made available to the Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States. In addition, the 
register of approved germinal product establishments should be made available to the public. Therefore, it is appropriate 
to lay down in this Regulation the detailed information which should be included in those registers and the public 
availability of the register of the approved germinal product establishments.
(18)	
Due to the lengthy stocking capabilities for semen, oocytes and embryos, it is necessary to lay down in this Regulation 
special rules for the storage and movement of germinal products collected by approved germinal product establishments 
which cease their activity. Information concerning such germinal product establishments should be retained in the 
register of approved germinal product establishments of the Member State concerned and dates when the activity was 
stopped should be included. In addition, the date of withdrawal of the approval should be indicated in that register. 
The period for retaining information concerning such germinal product establishments in that register should also 
be established.
(19)	
In addition, this Regulation should also lay down rules to ensure that operators of approved germinal product 
establishments who cease their activity, prior to the date of withdrawal of the approval of their germinal product 
establishment, move the semen, oocytes or embryos collected or produced and stored in those germinal product 
establishments for further storage to a germinal product storage centre, or for reproduction purposes to an establishment 
where bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals are kept, or for safe disposal or use as animal by-products in 
accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (7).
(20)	
Article 121 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down traceability requirements for germinal products of bovine, ovine, 
caprine, porcine and equine animals and detailed rules in relation to the marking of those germinal products should 
be laid down in this Regulation. The current system for the marking of straws and other packages with germinal 
products is well established. Account should also be taken of the recommendations of the International Committee 
for Animal Recording (ICAR) (8) in this respect.
(21)	
The collection and processing of semen of ovine and caprine animals also have particular characteristics. Some semen 
collection centres freeze semen in pellets, while others place fresh or chilled semen for a short time in receptacles, 
such as tubes. The individual marking of such pellets and tubes is time consuming and onerous. In order to allow 
the movement to other Member States of semen of ovine and caprine animals, while at the same time ensuring its 
traceability, group identification of pellets of frozen semen or tubes or straws with fresh or chilled semen should be 
available. Therefore, it is necessary to lay down in this Regulation rules for the marking of collective packages, such 
as goblets, where pellets of frozen semen, or tubes or straws with fresh or chilled semen of ovine and caprine animals 
are placed.
(22)	
Traceability requirements for germinal products of bovine, ovine, caprine, porcine and equine animals laid down in 
this Regulation are to be supplemented by the rules concerning technical requirements and specifications for marking 
of straws and other packages which will be laid down in Commission Implementing Regulation adopted in accordance 
with Article 123 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429.
(6)	 http://www.oie.int/index.php?id=169&L=0&htmfile=chapitre_coll_semen.htm
(7)	 Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down health rules as regards 
animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002 (Animal 
by-products Regulation) (OJ L 300, 14.11.2009, p. 1).
(8)	 https://www.icar.org/

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/5
EN
(23)	
An increasing number of germinal products of dogs and cats, of terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, 
caprine and equine animals kept at confined establishments and of animals of the families Camelidae and Cervidae are 
moved between Member States. Therefore, it is appropriate to establish harmonised rules on the marking of straws 
and other packages containing such germinal products. Additional rules on the traceability of germinal products of 
kept terrestrial animals of species other than those of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species should 
be laid down in this Regulation.
(24)	
Article 159 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down rules concerning the authorisation of movements to other Member 
States of germinal products of kept animals of the bovine, ovine, caprine, porcine and equine species. In order to make 
those rules operational, it is necessary to lay down in this Regulation detailed rules for the collection, production, 
processing, storage and transport of germinal products, and animal health requirements for kept donor animals from 
which germinal products are collected and concerning isolation and quarantine for such animals, and requirements 
for the laboratory and other tests to be carried out on kept donor animals and germinal products, as well as animal 
health requirements for the collection, production, processing, storage or other procedures and transport of those 
germinal products.
(25)	
In addition, Directives 88/407/EEC, 90/429/EEC and 92/65/EEC provided for derogations, under certain conditions, 
from testing obligations for donor animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine species when those animals 
are moved between semen collection centres. As such derogations decrease the procedural and economic burdens 
for operators of semen collection centres and are justified from an animal health point of view, it is appropriate to 
maintain in this Regulation such derogations from certain animal health requirements for donor animals of the bovine, 
ovine, caprine and porcine species moved between approved semen collection centres.
(26)	
Based on current scientific knowledge, the transport of different types of germinal products of a single species in 
one container does not pose a risk for the contamination of germinal products if they are transported under certain 
conditions. These conditions include being transported in physically separated compartments of the transport container 
or with the use of double-bag system protecting the commodity of one type from the other. Therefore, it is appropriate 
to lay down rules in this Regulation permitting the transport of germinal products of different types of a single species 
in one container under certain conditions.
(27)	
The sealing of containers in which germinal products are transported from approved germinal product establishments 
to other Member States or nationally from approved germinal product establishments to germinal product processing 
establishments and germinal product storage centres ensures that the animal health conditions for the transport of 
germinal products are not compromised. The centre veterinarian or team veterinarian responsible for the germinal 
product establishment, whose name is specified in the approval of that establishment, should ensure that such seal 
is applied on the transport container. An official veterinarian certifying a consignment of germinal products should 
have the possibility of breaking that seal for the purpose of verifying the content of the transport container and later 
on re-sealing the transport container. Those arrangements should be taken into account in the rules laid down in this 
Regulation.
(28)	
Directive 89/556/EEC lays down conditions for intra-Union trade in and imports into the Union of embryos of animals 
of the bovine species. However, it is also necessary to lay down in this Regulation rules on movements within the 
Union of bovine oocytes as well as ovaries.
(29)	
Union legislation in force prior to the adoption of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 and this Regulation laid down the rules 
on trade in semen covering situations where each dose of the consignment consists of ejaculates of one particular 
donor. However, due to the fact that mixed or pooled semen from several donors may increase fertility and such 
semen is commonly used, this Regulation should lay down rules on movements of mixed or pooled semen of bovine, 
porcine, ovine and caprine animals, provided that mixing of semen is restricted only to one semen collection centre 
where the semen was collected and a mark on each straw or other package in which mixed semen is placed allows 
tracing the individual identification numbers of all donor animals. In addition, the operator should have procedures 
in place as regards the processing of mixed semen and should include, in its records, details of movements of such 
semen from semen collection centre.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/6
EN
3.6.2020
(30)	
Article 13 of Directive 92/65/EEC lays down rules for trade in semen, ova and embryos of animals of species susceptible 
to the diseases listed in Annex A or B thereto which are consigned to and from bodies, institutes or centres approved 
in accordance with Annex C thereto. Annex E to that Directive sets out the model animal health certificate for trade 
which should accompany the consignments of such semen, ova or embryos. Articles 95 and 137 of Regulation (EU) 
2016/429 establish the concept of ‘a confined establishment’ which is equivalent to ‘approved body, institute or centre’ 
defined in Article 2(1)(c) of Directive 92/65/EEC. Given that genetic material of animals is currently exchanged between 
approved bodies, institutes and centres, it is necessary to maintain the possibility for such intra-Union movements 
in this Regulation. It is therefore appropriate to lay down in this Regulation the animal health requirements for 
movements to other Member States of germinal products of terrestrial animals kept at confined establishments. This 
Regulation should thus provide for a possibility for operators of confined establishments to move to other Member 
States consignments of germinal products collected from animals kept at those establishments without a need for 
additional approval as germinal product establishment. High animal health requirements for the approval as a confined 
establishment, controlled management of animals at those establishments, specific surveillance requirements and 
targeted movement of consignments of germinal products to another confined establishment should provide for 
sufficient guarantees to prevent the spread of animal diseases.
(31)	
Article 162 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down rules concerning the minimum information which must be 
included in animal health certificates for movements between Member States of germinal products of kept terrestrial 
animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species. Therefore, this Regulation should specify the detailed 
information that should be contained in such certificates.
(32)	
Article 163 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that operators should inform the competent authority in their 
Member State of origin in advance of the intended movement to another Member State of germinal products of kept 
terrestrial animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species and should provide all the necessary 
information to enable that competent authority to notify the movement of germinal products to the competent authority 
of the Member State of destination. Therefore, it is necessary to lay down in this Regulation detailed rules concerning 
the requirements for the advance notification by operators, the information necessary to notify such movements and 
the emergency procedures for such notifications.
(33)	
Article 163(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that Traces should be used for the notification purposes 
when consignments of germinal products are intended to be moved to other Member States. Traces is the integrated 
computerised veterinary system as provided for in Commission Decisions 2003/24/EC (9) and 2004/292/EC (10). 
Article 131 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council (11) provides for the 
establishment of an information management system for official controls (IMSOC) which will incorporate functionalities 
of Traces. IMSOC should therefore be referred to in this Regulation instead of Traces.
(34)	
Article 165 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that the competent authority of the place of destination may, 
subject to agreement of the competent authority of the place of origin, authorise for scientific purposes movements 
of germinal products into its territory where those movements do not fulfil the standard requirements for movements 
of germinal products. In order to allow such movements, it is appropriate to lay down in this Regulation the rules for 
the granting of derogations by the competent authorities for movements between Member States of germinal products 
for scientific purposes.
(9)	 Commission Decision 2003/24/EC of 30 December 2002 concerning the development of an integrated computerised veterinary system 
(OJ L 8, 14.1.2003, p. 44).
(10)	 Commission Decision 2004/292/EC of 30 March 2004 on the introduction of the Traces system and amending Decision 92/486/EEC 
(OJ L 94, 31.3.2004, p. 63).
(11)	 Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities 
performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products, 
amending Regulations (EC) No 999/2001, (EC) No 396/2005, (EC) No 1069/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009, (EU) No 1151/2012, (EU) 
No 652/2014, (EU) 2016/429 and (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Regulations (EC) No 1/2005 
and (EC) No 1099/2009 and Council Directives 98/58/EC, 1999/74/EC, 2007/43/EC, 2008/119/EC and 2008/120/EC, and repealing 
Regulations (EC) No 854/2004 and (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Directives 89/608/EEC, 
89/662/EEC, 90/425/EEC, 91/496/EEC, 96/23/EC, 96/93/EC and 97/78/EC and Council Decision 92/438/EEC (Official Controls 
Regulation) (OJ L 95, 7.4.2017, p. 1).

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/7
EN
(35)	
A national gene bank plays an important role in storing the genetic material of animal populations that are particular 
to that Member State. The objective of such national gene banks is ex situ conservation and sustainable use of animal 
genetic resources. Germinal products stored at the national gene banks are often of unknown animal health status 
or were collected, produced, processed and stored in accordance with a different animal health regime than it is 
currently applicable in accordance with Union and national legislation. As such germinal products have a particular 
value, as they are often genetic material of endangered breeds as defined in point (24) of Article 2 of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (12), or breeds that are extinct since collection of the 
germinal products, and Member States have expressed their interest in exchanging such germinal products amongst 
themselves, special conditions for granting derogations by the competent authorities for the movement of germinal 
products stored in national gene banks to other Member States should be laid down in this Regulation. As a general 
rule, this Regulation should lay down the conditions for movements of those germinal products between national 
gene banks of different Member States, while rules for national distribution of germinal products from national gene 
banks to operators should be left to the competent authorities of Member States. Special attention should also be paid 
to the animal health conditions for such movements, where testing for particular diseases may be required.
(36)	
This Regulation refers to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882 (13) and Commission Delegated 
Regulations (EU) 2019/2035 (14), (EU) 2020/689 (15) and (EU) 2020/688 (16) which were also adopted under Regulation 
(EU) 2016/429. The references to those Regulations are necessary as they lay down requirements on surveillance, 
eradication programmes and disease free statuses, identification and registration, traceability and movements within 
the Union and entry into the Union of animals, which are also applicable to germinal product donor animals.
(37)	
In order to ensure a smooth transition to the new legal framework for semen collection or storage centres or embryo 
collection or production teams approved under acts adopted pursuant to Directives 88/407/EEC, 89/556/EEC, 
90/429/EEC and 92/65/EEC, which are repealed by Regulation (EU) 2016/429 with effect from 21 April 2021, 
carrying out activities related to the collection, production, processing, storing and transport of germinal products, 
they should be deemed to be approved in accordance with this Regulation. Member States should ensure that those 
operators comply with all the rules provided for in this Regulation, in particular by submitting them to regular and 
risk-based official controls. In the event of non-compliance, the competent authorities should ensure that those 
operators take the necessary measures to remedy that non-compliance and, where necessary, suspend or withdraw 
their approval.
(38)	
In order to ensure a smooth transition for germinal products collected and produced before the date of application 
of this Regulation, straws and other packages in which such semen, oocytes or embryos, whether or not separated 
into individual doses, are placed, stored and transported, and which are marked before 21 April 2021 in accordance 
with the legislation adopted pursuant to Directives 88/407/EEC, 89/556/EEC, 90/429/EEC and 92/65/EEC, should 
be considered to have been marked in accordance with this Regulation and eligible for movement between Member 
States.
(39)	
This Regulation should be applicable from 21 April 2021 in accordance with the date of application of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/429,
(12)	 Regulation (EU) 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions 
for the breeding, trade in and entry into the Union of purebred breeding animals, hybrid breeding pigs and the germinal products thereof 
and amending Regulation (EU) No 652/2014, Council Directives 89/608/EEC and 90/425/EEC and repealing certain acts in the area of 
animal breeding (‘Animal Breeding Regulation’) (OJ L 171, 29.6.2016, p. 66).
(13)	 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882 of 3 December 2018 on the application of certain disease prevention and control 
rules to categories of listed diseases and establishing a list of species and groups of species posing a considerable risk for the spread of those 
listed diseases (OJ L 308, 4.12.2018, p. 21).
(14)	 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035 of 28 June 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council as regards rules for establishments keeping terrestrial animals and hatcheries, and the traceability of certain kept terrestrial 
animals and hatching eggs (OJ L 314, 5.12.2019, p. 115).
(15)	 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/689 of 17 December 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council as regards rules for surveillance, eradication programmes, and disease-free status for certain listed and 
emerging diseases (See page 211 of this Official Journal).
(16)	 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 of 17 December 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European 
Parliament and the Council, as regards animal health requirements for movements within the Union of terrestrial animals and hatching 
eggs (See page 140 of this Official Journal).

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/8
EN
3.6.2020
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
PART I
SUBJECT MATTER, SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS
Article 1
Subject matter and scope
1. 
This Regulation supplements the rules laid down in Regulation (EU) 2016/429 as regards registered and approved 
germinal product establishments and the traceability and animal health requirements for movements within the Union of 
germinal products of certain kept terrestrial animals.
2.  Chapter 1 of Part II lays down the requirements for the approval of germinal product establishments for bovine, porcine, 
ovine, caprine and equine animals from which germinal products of those animals are moved to another Member State in 
relation to:
(a)	 quarantine, isolation and other biosecurity measures;
(b)	 surveillance requirements;
(c)	 facilities and equipment;
(d)	 responsibilities, competence and specialised training of personnel and veterinarians for the activity of germinal product 
establishments;
(e)	 responsibilities of the competent authority approving germinal product establishments;
(f)	 special rules for the cessation of activities of those germinal product establishments.
3.  Chapter 2 of Part II lays down the requirements on:
(a)	 the information to be included by the competent authority in the register of registered germinal product establishments;
(b)	 the information to be included by the competent authority in the register of the of approved germinal product 
establishments for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals; and the rules for the availability to the public of 
that register when germinal products of those animals are to be moved between Member States.
4.  Chapter 3 of Part II lays down:
(a)	 the rules for the record-keeping obligations on operators of approved germinal product establishments for bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals, and the requirements for record-keeping in respect of the germinal products 
collected, produced or processed in such an establishment after it has ceased its activities;
(b)	 the traceability requirements for germinal products of:
	 (i)	 bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals;
	(ii)	 dogs (Canis lupus familiaris) and cats (Felis silvestris catus);
	(iii)	 terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept at confined establishments;
	(iv)	 animals of the families Camelidae and Cervidae.
5.  Chapter 1 of Part III lays down the animal health requirements, including derogations, for movements between Member 
States of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals, specifying:
(a)	 the rules for the collection, production, processing and storage of germinal products in the approved germinal product 
establishments;
(b)	 the animal health requirements for donor animals from which germinal products were collected, and concerning isolation 
or quarantine for those animals;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/9
EN
(c)	 the laboratory and other tests to be carried out on donor animals and germinal products;
(d)	 the animal health requirements for the collection, production, processing, storage and other procedures, and for the 
transport of germinal products.
6. 
Chapter 2 of Part III, for movements between Member States of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
and equine animals, lays down:
(a)	 the rules on animal health certification;
(b)	 the information to be contained in the animal health certificate;
(c)	 the requirements concerning self-declaration document;
(d)	 the notification requirements.
7.  Chapter 3 of Part III lays down the animal health, certification and notification requirements for movements between 
Member States of germinal products of:
(a)	 dogs and cats;
(b)	 terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept at confined establishments;
(c)	 animals of the families Camelidae and Cervidae.
8.  Chapter 4 of Part III lays down rules for the granting of derogations by competent authorities for movements between 
Member States of germinal products for scientific purposes and germinal products stored at gene banks.
9.  Part IV lays down certain transitional measures regarding Directives 88/407/EEC, 89/556/EEC, 90/429/EEC and 92/65/EEC 
in relation to:
(a)	 the approval of semen collection centres, semen storage centres, embryo collection teams and embryo production teams;
(b)	 the marking of straws and other packages in which semen, oocytes or embryos are placed, stored and transported.
10.  This Regulation shall not apply to germinal products of wild animals.
Article 2
Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, in addition to the definitions laid down in Article 1 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 
2018/1882, the following definitions shall apply:
	 (1)	 ‘registered germinal product establishment’ means a germinal product establishment, other than an approved germinal 
product establishment, registered with the competent authority in accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph of 
Article 93 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
	 (2)	 ‘approved germinal product establishment’ means a semen collection centre, an embryo collection team, an embryo 
production team, a germinal product processing establishment or a germinal product storage centre, approved in 
accordance with Article 97 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
	 (3)	 ‘bovine animal’ or ‘animal of the bovine species’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the genera 
Bison, Bos (including the subgenera Bos, Bibos, Novibos, Poephagus) and Bubalus (including the subgenus Anoa) and the 
offspring of crossings of those species;
	 (4)	 ‘porcine animal’ or ‘animal of the porcine species’ means an animal of the ungulate species of Sus scrofa;
	 (5)	 ‘ovine animal’ or ‘animal of the ovine species’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the genus Ovis 
and the offspring of crossings of those species;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/10
EN
3.6.2020
	 (6)	 ‘caprine animal’ or ‘animal of the caprine species’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the genus 
Capra and the offspring of crossings of those species;
	 (7)	 ‘equine animal’ or ‘animal of the equine species’ means an animal of the species of solipeds belonging to genus Equus 
(including horses, asses, and zebras) and the offspring of crossings of those species;
	 (8)	 ‘animal health certificate’ means a document issued by the competent authority of the Member State of origin to 
accompany a consignment of germinal products to their place of destination as referred to in Article 161(4) of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/429;
	 (9)	 ‘self-declaration document’ means a document issued by the operator to accompany a consignment of germinal products 
to their place of destination as referred to in Articles 32 and 46;
	(10)	 ‘gene bank’ means a repository of animal genetic material for ex situ conservation and sustainable use of genetic resources 
of kept terrestrial animals, held by a host institution authorised or recognised by the competent authority to fulfil these 
tasks;
	(11)	 ‘semen collection centre’ means a germinal product establishment approved by the competent authority for the collection, 
processing, storage and transport of semen of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals intended for movement 
to another Member State, as referred to in Article 4;
	(12)	 ‘embryo collection team’ means a germinal product establishment comprised of a group of professionals or a structure 
approved by the competent authority for the collection, processing, storage and transport of in vivo derived embryos 
of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals intended for movement to another Member State, as referred to 
in Article 4;
	(13)	 ‘embryo production team’ means a germinal product establishment comprised of a group of professionals or a structure 
approved by the competent authority for the collection, processing, storage and transport of oocytes, and the in vitro 
production, where applicable with stored semen, processing, storage and transport of embryos, of bovine, porcine, 
ovine, caprine or equine animals both intended for movement to another Member State, as referred to in Article 4;
	(14)	 ‘semen’ means the ejaculate of an animal or animals, either in the unaltered state or prepared or diluted;
	(15)	 ‘oocytes’ means the haploid stages of the ootidogenesis including secondary oocytes and ova;
	(16)	 ‘embryo’ means the initial stage of development of an animal while it is capable of being transferred to a recipient dam;
	(17)	 ‘consignment of germinal products’ means a quantity of semen, oocytes, in vivo derived embryos or in vitro produced 
embryos dispatched from a single approved germinal product establishment covered by a single animal health certificate;
	(18)	 ‘germinal product processing establishment’ means a germinal product establishment approved by the competent 
authority for the processing, including semen sex-sorting where appropriate, and the storage of semen, oocytes or 
embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals of one or more species, or any combination of types of 
germinal products or species, intended for movement to another Member State, as referred to in Article 4;
	(19)	 ‘germinal product storage centre’ means a germinal product establishment approved by the competent authority for 
the storage of semen, oocytes or embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals of one or more species, 
or any combination of types of germinal products or species, intended for movement to another Member State, as 
referred to in Article 4;
	(20)	 ‘centre veterinarian’ means the veterinarian responsible for the activities carried out at the semen collection centre, at 
the germinal product processing establishment or at the germinal product storage centre as laid down in this Regulation;
	(21)	 ‘team veterinarian’ means the veterinarian responsible for the activities carried out by an embryo collection team or 
by an embryo production team as laid down in this Regulation;
	(22)	 ‘unique approval number’ means a number assigned by the competent authority;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/11
EN
	(23)	 ‘withdrawal date of the approval’ means the date on which the competent authority has suspended or withdrawn the 
approval of an approved germinal product establishment in accordance with Article 100 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
	(24)	 ‘unique registration number’ means a number assigned to a registered germinal product establishment;
	(25)	 ‘quarantine accommodation’ means a facility authorised by the competent authority for the purpose of the isolation of 
bovine, porcine, ovine or caprine animals for a period of at least 28 days before they are admitted to a semen collection 
centre;
	(26)	 ‘establishment free from (disease)’ means an establishment granted the status in accordance with the requirements set 
out in Article 20 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/689;
	(27)	 ‘official laboratory’ means a laboratory, situated in a Member State or third country or territory, designated in accordance 
with Article 37 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 by the competent authority to carry out the tests provided for in Articles 24 
and 25 of this Regulation;
	(28)	 ‘IMSOC’ means an information management system for official controls for the integrated operation of the mechanisms 
and tools through which data, information and documents concerning official controls and other official activities are 
managed, handled, and automatically exchanged as referred to in Article 131 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and is the 
system now used instead of Traces;
	(29)	 ‘endangered breed’ means a local breed, recognised by a Member State to be endangered, genetically adapted to one 
or more traditional production systems or environments in that Member State and where the endangered status is 
scientifically established by a body possessing the necessary skills and knowledge in the area of endangered breeds as 
referred to in Article 2(24) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1012;
	(30)	 ‘approved eradication programme’ means a disease eradication programme implemented in a Member State or zone 
thereof as approved by the Commission in accordance with Article 31(3) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
	(31)	 ‘batch of donor animals’ means a group of animals of the same health status from which germinal products are collected 
and processed at the same time, and transported together.
PART II
APPROVAL OF GERMINAL PRODUCT ESTABLISHMENTS, REGISTERS, RECORD-KEEPING AND TRACEABILITY
CHAPTER 1
Approval of germinal product establishments
Article 3
Requirements for the approval of germinal product establishments for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
and equine animals
Operators of the following germinal product establishments for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals shall apply 
in accordance with Article 94(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 to the competent authority for approval for the purpose 
of moving consignments of germinal products of those animals to other Member States:
(a)	 the establishment where semen of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals is collected, processed and stored 
for approval as a semen collection centre;
(b)	 the group of professionals or the structure supervised by a team veterinarian competent to perform the collection, 
processing and storage of embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals for approval as a embryo 
collection team;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/12
EN
3.6.2020
(c)	 the group of professionals or the structure supervised by a team veterinarian competent to perform the collection, 
processing and storage of oocytes and production, processing and storage of embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
or equine animals for approval as an embryo production team;
(d)	 the establishment where fresh, chilled or frozen semen, oocytes or embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine 
animals are processed and stored for approval as a germinal product processing establishment;
(e)	 the establishment where fresh, chilled or frozen semen, oocytes or embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine 
animals are stored for approval as a germinal product storage centre.
Article 4
Approval by the competent authority of germinal product establishments for bovine, porcine, ovine, 
caprine and equine animals
1. 
The competent authority shall only grant approval of a germinal product establishment for bovine, porcine, ovine, 
caprine or equine animals as referred to in Article 97 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 after it has ensured that it complies with 
the following requirements:
(a)	 the operator has appointed:
	(i)	 a centre veterinarian responsible for the activities set out in:
—	 point 1 of Part 1 of Annex I, in the case of an application for approval of a germinal product establishment 
referred to in point (a) of Article 3 as a semen collection centre,
—	 point 1 of Part 4 of Annex I, in the case of an application for approval of a germinal product establishment 
referred to in point (d) of Article 3 as a germinal product processing establishment,
—	 point 1 of Part 5 of Annex I, in the case of an application for approval of a germinal product establishment 
referred to in point (e) of Article 3 as a germinal product storage centre; or
	(ii)	 a team veterinarian responsible for the activities set out in:
—	 point 1 of Part 2 of Annex I, in the case of an application for approval of a germinal product establishment 
referred to in point (b) of Article 3 as a embryo collection team,
—	 point 1 of Part 3 of Annex I, in the case of an application for approval of a germinal product establishment 
referred to in point (c) of Article 3 as a embryo production team;
(b)	 the facilities, equipment and operational procedures for the activity in question comply with the requirements set out 
in:
	 (i)	 point 2 of Part 1 of Annex I, in respect of the collection, processing, storage and transport of semen of bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals;
	(ii)	 point 2 of Part 2 of Annex I, in respect of the collection, processing, storage and transport of embryos of bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals;
	(iii)	 point 2 of Part 3 of Annex I, in respect of the collection of oocytes and of the production, processing, storage and 
transport of embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals, including the processing and storage of 
semen and oocytes used for the embryo production;
	(iv)	 point 2 of Part 4 of Annex I, in respect of the processing, storage and transport of fresh, chilled or frozen semen, 
oocytes or embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals;
	(v)	 point 2 of Part 5 of Annex I, in respect of the storage and transport of fresh, chilled or frozen semen, oocytes or 
embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals.
2.  When granting approval of a germinal product establishment for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals, as 
referred to in Articles 97 and 99 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, the competent authority shall assign it with a unique approval 
number, which shall include the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the country in which the approval is granted.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/13
EN
Article 5
Special rules for the cessation of activities of approved germinal product establishments for bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
1. 
Where the operator of an approved germinal product establishment for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine 
animals ceases its activity, that operator shall ensure that prior to the withdrawal date of the approval all consignments 
of semen, oocytes or embryos collected or produced and stored in that germinal product establishment have been moved:
(a)	 to a germinal product storage centre for further storage; or
(b)	 for reproduction purposes to an establishment where bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals are kept; or
(c)	 for safe disposal or use as animal by-products in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009.
2.  Where consignments of semen, oocytes or embryos are not moved from the approved germinal product establishment 
prior the withdrawal date of the approval as referred to in paragraph 1, such consignments shall not be moved to another 
Member State.
CHAPTER 2
Registers to be kept by the competent authority of registered and approved germinal product establishments
Article 6
Register to be kept by the competent authority of registered germinal product establishments
1.  The competent authority shall draw up and keep up-to-date a register of registered germinal product establishments.
2.  The competent authority shall include at least the following information in the register referred to in paragraph 1, for 
each registered germinal product establishment:
(a)	 the name, contact details and, where available, the Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of the website of the registered 
germinal product establishment;
(b)	 the address of the registered germinal product establishment;
(c)	 the type of germinal products and animal species for which it was registered;
(d)	 the unique registration number assigned by the competent authority and the date of the registration;
(e)	 if activities of the registered germinal product establishment have ceased, the date of cessation of those activities.
Article 7
Register to be kept by the competent authority of approved germinal product establishments for bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
1.  The competent authority shall draw up and keep up to date a register of approved germinal product establishments for 
bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals.
2.  The competent authority shall include at least the following information in the register referred to in paragraph 1 for 
each approved germinal product establishment:
(a)	 the name, contact details and, where available, the URL of the website of the germinal product establishment;
(b)	 the address of the germinal product establishment;
(c)	 the name of the centre veterinarian or the team veterinarian;
(d)	 the type of germinal products, the type of the germinal product establishment and animal species for which the approval 
has been granted;
(e)	 the unique approval number assigned by the competent authority and the date of the approval.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/14
EN
3.6.2020
3. 
Where, based on requirements provided for in Article 4, a germinal product processing establishment or a germinal 
product storage centre is approved by the competent authority for the storage and, in respect of the germinal product 
processing establishment, the processing, of germinal products of more than one type or of more than one animal species, 
the competent authority shall include information on the type of the germinal products and on the animal species thereof 
stored and, if applicable, processed at the approved germinal product establishment in its register of approved germinal 
product establishments.
4.  Where the competent authority has suspended or withdrawn the approval of an approved germinal product establishment 
in accordance with Article 100(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, it shall, without undue delay:
(a)	 indicate that suspension or withdrawal in its register of approved germinal product establishments;
(b)	 specify in the case of the suspension of the approval, the commencement and end date, and in the case of withdrawal, 
the withdrawal date of the approval.
5. 
Where an approved germinal product establishment has ceased its activity as referred to in Article 5, the competent 
authority shall, without undue delay, indicate the date of cessation of those activities in its register of approved germinal 
product establishments.
6.  The competent authority shall make the register referred to in paragraph 1 available to the public on its website, where 
germinal products are to be moved between Member States and notify the URL of that website to the Commission.
Where the URL of the website of a competent authority has been changed it shall notify, without undue delay, the new URL 
of that website to the Commission.
CHAPTER 3
Record-keeping and traceability
S ectio n 1
Record keepi ng
Article 8
Record-keeping obligations of operators of approved germinal product establishments for bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
1. 
Operators of approved germinal product establishments for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals shall 
keep and maintain records containing at least the following information:
(a)	 in respect of a semen collection centre:
	 (i)	 the species, breed, date of birth and identification of each donor animal present at the semen collection centre;
	(ii)	 the dates of any movement of donor animals to and from the semen collection centre and, where those animals 
are accompanied by any document, the reference to those documents;
	(iii)	 the health status, the results of clinical and diagnostic tests and the laboratory techniques used, treatments and 
vaccinations carried out on the donor animals;
	(iv)	 the date of semen collection and, where relevant, the date and the place of processing of semen;
	(v)	 the identification of semen and details of its destination;
(b)	 in respect of an embryo collection team, an embryo production team or an embryo collection and production team:
	 (i)	 the species, breed, date of birth and identification of each donor animal from which oocytes or embryos were 
collected;
	(ii)	 the health status, the results of clinical and diagnostic tests and the laboratory techniques used, treatments and 
vaccinations carried out on donor animals of oocytes or embryos;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/15
EN
	(iii)	 the date and place of oocytes or embryos collection, examination, and processing;
	(iv)	 the identification of oocytes or embryos and details of their destination;
	(v)	 where micromanipulation is being performed on the embryos, the details of micromanipulation techniques used 
which involve penetration of the zona pellucida or, in case of equine embryos, the embryonic capsule;
	(vi)	 the origin of semen used for artificial insemination of donor animals or to fertilise oocytes for in vitro production 
of embryos;
(c)	 in respect of a germinal product processing establishment or a germinal product storage centre:
	 (i)	 the type of germinal products either processed and stored or stored at the approved germinal product establishment 
with reference to the species of the donor animal;
	(ii)	 the dates of movement of germinal products to and from the approved germinal product establishment with the 
reference to the documents which accompanied those germinal products;
	(iii)	 the documents, including an animal health certificate and a self-declaration document, confirming that the health 
status of the donor animals whose germinal products are either processed and stored or stored at the approved 
germinal product establishment complies with the requirements of this Regulation;
	(iv)	 the identification of germinal products that are either processed and stored or stored at the approved germinal 
product establishment.
2. 
Where a germinal product establishment, referred to in paragraph 1(c), is approved by the competent authority for 
either processing and storage or storage of germinal products of more than one type or of more than one animal species, 
the operator shall keep and maintain records separately for each type of germinal product and germinal products of each 
animal species either processed and stored or stored.
Article 9
Record-keeping obligations of operators of approved germinal product establishments for bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals that cease their activity
1.  Where an approved germinal product establishment for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals ceases its 
activity as referred to in Article 5, the operator of that establishment shall only move consignments of stored germinal 
products to a germinal product storage centre if such consignments are accompanied by originals or copies of the records 
required in accordance with Article 8(1).
2.  The operator of the germinal product storage centre receiving the consignment of germinal products from the establishment 
that has ceased its activity as referred to in paragraph 1 shall record the entry and details of the germinal products based on 
the accompanying records required in accordance with Article 8(1)(c).
S ectio n 2
Tr aceabi li ty
Article 10
Traceability requirements for germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
1.  Operators collecting, producing, processing or storing germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine 
animals shall mark each straw or other package in which semen, oocytes or embryos, whether or not separated into individual 
doses, are placed, stored and transported, in such a way that the following information can be readily established:
(a)	 the date of collection or production of those germinal products;
(b)	 the species and identification of the donor animal(s);

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/16
EN
3.6.2020
(c)	 the unique approval number of the germinal product establishment of collection or production, processing and storage 
of those germinal products;
(d)	 any other relevant information.
2.  In case of sex-sorting of semen at a germinal product processing establishment, the operator of the semen collection 
centre shall supplement the information referred to in paragraph 1 with information which permits the identification of the 
unique approval number of the germinal product processing establishment where that semen was sex-sorted.
3.  Where a single straw or another package contains semen of bovine, porcine, ovine or caprine animals collected from more 
than one donor animal, the operator shall ensure that the information referred to in paragraph 1 permits the identification 
of all donor animals that have contributed to the dose of semen used for insemination.
4.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1, where the semen of ovine or caprine animals is
(a)	 frozen in pellets, the operator may mark the goblet containing the semen pellets of a single donor instead of marking 
each individual pellet in that goblet;
(b)	 fresh or chilled semen, the operator may mark the goblet containing the semen tubes or straws of a single donor instead 
of marking each individual tube or straw in that goblet.
5.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1(c), the operator shall ensure that the marking of each straw or other package 
in which semen, oocytes or embryos are placed, stored and transported, is carried out in such a way that it permits the 
identification of:
(a)	 in the case of semen of ovine and caprine animals which has been collected at the establishment where the donor animals 
are kept as referred to in Article 13, the unique registration number of that establishment; or
(b)	 in the case of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals which have been collected or 
produced at a confined establishment referred to in Article 14, the unique approval number of that confined establishment.
Article 11
Traceability requirements for germinal products of dogs and cats, terrestrial animals other than bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept at confined establishments, and animals of the families 
Camelidae and Cervidae
1. 
Operators collecting, producing, processing or storing germinal products of dogs or cats, of terrestrial animals other 
than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals kept at confined establishments or of animals of the family Camelidae 
or Cervidae shall mark each straw or other package in which semen, oocytes or embryos, whether or not separated into 
individual doses, are placed, stored and transported in such a way that the following information can be readily established:
(a)	 the date of collection or production of those germinal products;
(b)	 the species, where necessary subspecies, and identification of the donor animal(s);
(c)	 one of the following:
	 (i)	 the address of the establishment of collection or production, processing and storage of those germinal products;
	(ii)	 where the establishment of collection or production, processing and storage of those germinal products was assigned 
with a unique registration number, the unique registration number which shall include the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 
code of the country in which the establishment is registered;
	(iii)	 where the establishment of collection or production, processing and storage of those germinal products is a confined 
establishment, the unique approval number which shall include the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the country in 
which the approval is granted;
(d)	 any other information.
2. 
In case of sex-sorting of semen at an establishment other than the establishment of its collection or production, the 
operator of the establishment of collection or production of that semen shall supplement the information referred to in 
paragraph 1 with information which permits the identification of the establishment where that semen was sex-sorted.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/17
EN
3.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1, where the semen of the animals referred to in paragraph 1 is frozen in pellets, 
the operator may mark the goblet containing semen pellets of a single donor instead of marking each individual pellet in 
that goblet.
4.  Where a single straw or another package contains semen collected from more than one donor animal, the operator shall 
ensure that the information, referred to in paragraph 1, includes the identification of all donor animals.
PART III
MOVEMENTS OF GERMINAL PRODUCTS BETWEEN MEMBER STATES
CHAPTER 1
Animal health requirements for movements of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine 
animals
S ectio n 1
R u l e s fo r t h e c o l l e c t i o n , p ro d u c t i o n , p ro c e s s i n g a n d s to r a ge o f ge r m i n a l 
p ro duc t s o f bov ine , p o rc ine , ov i ne, capr i ne and eq ui ne ani mals i n approved 
ge r m ina l product es t abli shments
Article 12
Rules for movements to other Member States of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
and equine animals from approved germinal product establishments
Operators shall only move to another Member State semen, oocytes and embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and 
equine animals, which were collected, produced, processed and stored in approved germinal product establishments.
Article 13
Derogation for the movements to other Member States of semen of ovine and caprine animals from the 
establishments where those animals are kept
By way of derogation from Article 12, operators may move to other Member States consignments of semen of ovine and 
caprine animals which were collected, processed and stored at the establishment where those donor animals are kept, provided 
that those operators:
(a)	 obtain the prior consent of the competent authority of the Member State of destination to accept the consignment;
(b)	 ensure that the donor animals have been clinically examined by a veterinarian prior to semen collection and showed 
no symptoms suggesting the presence of any of the category D diseases or of the emerging diseases relevant for the ovine 
and caprine animals or clinical signs of such category D or emerging diseases, on the day the semen was collected;
(c)	 ensure that the donor animals come from establishments which fulfil the animal health requirements laid down in 
Article 15(1), (2), (3) and (4) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
(d)	 ensure that the donor animals have undergone the following tests with negative results carried out on samples taken 
during the period of isolation which must commence at least 30 days prior to the date of collection of the semen:
	 (i)	 a serological test referred to in point 1 of Part 1 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 for infection 
with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis;
	(ii)	 in the case of ovine animals, a serological test for ovine epididymitis (Brucella ovis);
	(iii)	 in the case of caprine animals kept together with ovine animals, a serological test for ovine epididymitis (Brucella 
ovis);

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/18
EN
3.6.2020
(e)	 ensure that the donor animals are identified in accordance with Article 45(2) or (4), or Article 46(1), (2) or (3) of 
Regulation (EU) 2019/2035;
(f)	 ensure that the semen has been marked in accordance with the requirements provided for in Article 10;
(g)	 keep records at the establishment which must include at least the information provided for in Article 8(1)(a);
(h)	 ensure that the consignment of semen is transported in accordance with Articles 28 and 29.
Article 14
Derogation for movements to other Member States of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, 
caprine and equine animals kept at confined establishments
By way of derogation from Article 12, operators of confined establishments may move to other Member States consignments 
of semen, oocytes and embryos collected at those establishments from bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals, 
provided that those operators:
(a)	 only move consignments of those germinal products to another confined establishment;
(b)	 ensure that the donor animals:
	 (i)	 do not come from an establishment, nor have been in contact with animals from an establishment, situated in a 
restricted zone established due to the occurrence of a category A disease or of an emerging disease relevant for 
bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals;
	(ii)	 come from an establishment where none of the category D diseases relevant for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
or equine animals have been reported for a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of collection of the semen, 
oocytes or embryos;
	(iii)	 have remained in a single confined establishment of origin for a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of 
collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos;
	(iv)	 have been clinically examined by the establishment veterinarian responsible for the activities carried out at confined 
establishment, and showed no symptoms suggesting the presence of any of the category D diseases referred to in 
point (ii) or of the emerging diseases or clinical signs of such diseases, on the day of collection of the semen, oocytes 
or embryos;
	(v)	 as much as possible, were not used for natural breeding during a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of first 
collection and during the period of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos intended for movement to another 
Member State;
	(vi)	 are identified in accordance with requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2035;
—	 for bovine animals in Article 38,
—	 for porcine animals in Article 52(1) or 54(2),
—	 for ovine and caprine animals in Article 45(2) or (4), or Article 46(1), (2) or (3),
—	 for equine animals in Article 58(1) or 59(1) or 62(1);
(c)	 ensure that the germinal products have been marked in accordance with the requirements provided for in Article 10;
(d)	 ensure that the germinal products are transported in accordance with Articles 28 and 29.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/19
EN
S ectio n 2
A n i m a l h e a l t h re q uire m e nt s fo r donor ani mals from w hi ch ger mi nal prod ucts 
were c o l l e c te d, a nd is o l a t io n and q uar anti ne req ui rements for t hose ani mals
Sub- Secti on I
G e n e r a l a n i m a l h e a l t h re q u i re m e n t s fo r d o n o r b ov i n e , p o rc i n e , ov i n e , c a p r i n e a n d 
eq uine animals
Article 15
Responsibilities of operators for compliance with the animal health requirements for donor bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals from which germinal products were collected
Operators shall only move to another Member State consignments of semen, oocytes and embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, 
caprine and equine animals which comply with the following requirements:
(a)	 the germinal products were collected from animals which did not show symptoms or clinical signs of transmissible 
animal diseases on the day of collection;
(b)	 the movement was authorised respectively by the centre or team veterinarian.
Article 16
Responsibilities of centre veterinarians and team veterinarians for compliance with the animal health 
requirements for donor bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals from which germinal products 
were collected
Centre veterinarians, as regards donor animals of semen, or team veterinarians, as regards donor animals of oocytes 
and embryos, shall ensure that the donor bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals comply with the following 
requirements:
(a)	 they were born and have remained since birth in the Union, or have entered the Union in accordance with the requirements 
for entry into the Union;
(b)	 they come from establishments in a Member State or zone thereof, or from establishments under official control by the 
competent authority in a third country or territory, or a zone thereof, each of which fulfils the animal health requirements 
laid down in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688:
	 (i)	 for bovine animals in Article 10(1), Article 11(1), (2) and (3) and Article 12(1), (2) and (3);
	(ii)	 for porcine animals in Article 19(1) and Article 20(1) and (2);
	(iii)	 for ovine and caprine animals in Article 15(1), (2), (3) and (4);
	(iv)	 for equine animals in Article 22(1) and (2);
(c)	 they have been identified in accordance with requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/2035:
	 (i)	 for bovine animals in Article 38;
	(ii)	 for porcine animals in Article 52(1) or 54(2);
	(iii)	 for ovine and caprine animals in Article 45(2) or (4), or Article 46(1), (2) or (3);
	(iv)	 for equine animals in Article 58(1) or 59(1) or 62(1);

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/20
EN
3.6.2020
(d)	 for a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of the first collection of the germinal products and during the collection 
period:
	 (i)	 they have been kept in establishments which are not situated in a restricted zone established due to the occurrence 
in bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals of a category A disease or of an emerging disease relevant for 
those animals;
	(ii)	 they have been kept in establishments where no category D diseases relevant for those animals have been reported;
	(iii)	 they have not been in contact with animals from establishments situated in a restricted zone referred to in point (i) 
or from establishments which do not meet the conditions referred to in point (ii);
	(iv)	 they have not been used for natural breeding;
(e)	 they showed neither symptoms nor clinical signs of any of the category D diseases referred to in point (d)(ii) or of the 
emerging diseases on the day of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos;
(f)	 they comply with the additional animal health requirements set out:
	 (i)	 for bovine animals in Article 20, and in Part 1 and Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(ii)	 for porcine animals in Article 21, and in Part 2 and Chapters I and IV of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(iii)	 for ovine and caprine animals in Article 22, and in Part 3 and Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(iv)	 for equine animals in Article 23, and in Part 4 of Annex II.
Article 17
Responsibilities of centre veterinarians and team veterinarians for compliance with the animal health 
requirements for donor bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals from which germinal products 
were collected from establishments subject to movement restrictions on animal health grounds
Centre veterinarians, as regards donor animals of semen, or team veterinarians, as regards donor animals of oocytes and 
embryos, shall ensure that semen, oocytes and embryos, collected at either a semen collection centre or an establishment 
which is subjected to movement restrictions on animal health grounds concerning the diseases referred to in Article 16(b), 
20, 21, 22 or 23, comply with the following requirements:
(a)	 they must be kept in separate storage;
(b)	 they must not be moved between Member States until the movement restrictions applied to either the semen collection 
centre or the establishment where the semen was collected has been removed by the competent authorities; and
(c)	 the semen, oocytes and embryos stored must have undergone the appropriate official investigations to rule out the presence 
in the semen, oocytes and embryos of animal pathogens causing the diseases for which the movement restrictions were 
established.
Article 18
Additional responsibilities of centre veterinarians for compliance with the animal health requirements 
for donor bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals from which semen was collected
Centre veterinarians shall ensure that donor bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals comply with the following 
requirements:
(a)	 they showed neither symptoms nor clinical signs of any of the category D diseases referred to in Article 16(d)(ii) on 
the day of their admission to a semen collection centre;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/21
EN
(b)	 in the case of donor bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine animals, prior to the day of their admission to a semen collection 
centre, they were kept in a quarantine accommodation which on that day complied with the following conditions:
	(i)	 none of the category D diseases relevant for the bovine, porcine, ovine or caprine animals has been reported for a 
period of at least the preceeding 30 days;
	(ii)	 it was not situated in a restricted zone established due to the occurrence in bovine, porcine, ovine or caprine animals 
of a category A disease or of an emerging disease relevant for those animals;
(c)	 they are kept at the semen collection centre which:
	(i)	 during a period which comprises at least 30 days prior to date of collection and at least 30 days following the date 
of collection of the semen or, in the case of fresh semen, until the date of dispatch of the consignment of semen, 
none of the category D diseases relevant for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals have been reported;
	(ii)	 it is not situated in a restricted zone established due to the occurrence in bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine 
animals of a category A disease or of an emerging disease relevant for those animals.
Article 19
Derogation from the animal health requirements for donor bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine 
animals moved between semen collection centres
1.  By way of derogation from point (b) of Article 18, operators may move donor bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine animals, 
and donor equine animals subjected to the testing programme for certain diseases as referred to in point 1(b)(i) of Chapter I 
of Part 4 of Annex II, directly from one semen collection centre to another semen collection centre:
(a)	 without quarantine or testing, before and after the movement, as referred to in Annex II for the following animals:
	 (i)	 for bovine animals, in Part 1 and Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 thereof;
	(ii)	 for porcine animals, in Part 2 and Chapters I and IV of Part 5 thereof;
	(iii)	 for ovine and caprine animals, in Part 3 and Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 thereof;
	(iv)	 for equine animals, in point 1(a) of Chapter I of Part 4 thereof; and
(b)	 provided that the donor animals:
	(i)	 show no disease symptoms or signs of any of the category D diseases relevant for the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
or equine animals on the day of that movement;
	(ii)	 before that movement, they were permanently present since the date of their admission at the semen collection 
centre and were subjected to the following tests relevant for the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals 
referred to in paragraph 1(a), with negative results:
—	 all compulsory routine tests referred to in Annex II in the period of the preceding 12 months prior to date of 
that movement, or
—	 where the compulsory routine tests have not yet been carried out at the semen collection centre, all tests required 
before admission to a semen collection centre carried out during the period immediately preceding quarantine 
and during the quarantine period.
2.  Operators shall only move donor animals, as referred to in the introductory phrase of paragraph 1, where the movement 
is authorised by the competent authority of the semen collection centre of origin and with the prior consent of the centre 
veterinarian of the semen collection centre of destination.
3.  Operators shall ensure that donor animals referred to in the introductory phrase of paragraph 1 do not come into direct 
or indirect contact with animals of a lower health status during the movement and the means of transport used have been 
cleansed and disinfected before use.
4.  Operators of semen collection centres of destination shall subject donor animals referred to in the introductory phrase 
of paragraph 1 to all compulsory routine tests referred to in paragraph 1(a) not later than 12 months following the date the 
last compulsory routine tests were carried out on those animals.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/22
EN
3.6.2020
Sub- Secti on II
Addition al an imal he alt h req uirements for cer t ain species of ungulates
Article 20
Additional animal health requirements for donor bovine animals from which semen, oocytes and 
embryos were collected
1.  The centre veterinarian, as regards donor animals of semen, or the team veterinarian, as regards donor animals of oocytes 
and embryos, shall ensure that donor bovine animals comply with the following requirements:
(a)	 they came from an establishment, in the case of donor animals of semen prior to their admission to a quarantine 
accommodation, that was free from the following diseases and have never been kept previously in any establishment of 
a lower health status:
	 (i)	 infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (M. bovis, M. caprae and M. tuberculosis);
	(ii)	 infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis;
	(iii)	 enzootic bovine leukosis;
	(iv)	 infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis;
(b)	 they fulfil the additional animal health requirements laid down in Part 1 and Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 of Annex II.
2.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1(a)(iii), the centre veterinarian may accept that a donor animal of semen came 
from an establishment which was not free from enzootic bovine leukosis provided that the animal either:
(a)	 is less than 2 years of age and has been produced by a dam which was subjected, with negative results, to a serological 
test for enzootic bovine leukosis after removal of that animal from its dam; or
(b)	 has reached the age of 2 years and was subjected, with negative results, to a serological test for enzootic bovine leukosis.
3.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1(a)(iii), the team veterinarian may accept a donor animal of oocytes and embryos 
that was less than 2 years of age which came from an establishment which was not free from enzootic bovine leukosis 
provided that the official veterinarian responsible for the establishment of origin has certified that there has been no clinical 
case of enzootic bovine leukosis during a period of at least the preceding 3 years.
4.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1(a)(iv),
(a)	 the centre veterinarian, as regards donor animals of semen, may accept a donor animal which came from an establishment 
which was not free from infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis provided that the animal 
has undergone the test required in accordance with point 1(b)(iv) of Chapter I of Part 1 of Annex II, or
(b)	 the team veterinarian, as regards donor animals of oocytes and embryos, may accept a donor animal which came from 
an establishment which was not free from infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis provided 
that the official veterinarian responsible for the establishment of origin has certified that there has been no clinical case 
of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis during a period of at least the preceding 12 months.
Article 21
Additional animal health requirements for donor porcine animals from which semen, oocytes and 
embryos were collected
1.  The centre veterinarian, as regards donor animals of semen, or the team veterinarian, as regards donor animals of oocytes 
and embryos, shall ensure that donor porcine animals comply with the following requirements:
(a)	 they came from an establishment, in the case of donor animals of semen prior their admission to a quarantine 
accommodation, where no clinical, serological, virological or pathological evidence of infection with Aujeszky’s disease 
virus had been detected during a period of at least the preceding 12 months;
(b)	 they fulfil additional animal health requirements laid down in Part 2 and Chapters I and IV of Part 5 of Annex II.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/23
EN
2.  The centre veterinarian shall ensure that donor porcine animals of semen comply with the following requirements:
(a)	 prior to their admission to a quarantine accommodation, they came from an establishment which was free from infection 
with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis in accordance with the requirements laid down in Chapter IV of 
Part 5 of Annex II;
(b)	 they were kept at the quarantine accommodation which on the day of admission was free from infection with Brucella 
abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis for the period of at least the preceding 3 months;
(c)	 they are kept in a semen collection centre where no clinical, serological, virological or pathological evidence of infection 
with Aujeszky’s disease virus has been reported for a period comprising at least 30 days prior to the date of admission 
and at least 30 days immediately prior to the date of collection;
(d)	 they have not been vaccinated against infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus and were kept, 
since birth or for a period comprising at least 3 months prior to the date of entry into the quarantine accommodation, 
in an establishment where no animals have been vaccinated against infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory 
syndrome virus and no infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus was detected during that 
period.
Article 22
Additional animal health requirements for donor ovine and caprine animals from which semen, oocytes 
and embryos were collected
The centre veterinarian, as regards donor animals of semen, or the team veterinarian, as regards donor animals of oocytes 
and embryos, shall ensure that donor ovine and caprine animals comply with the following requirements:
(a)	 they did not come from an establishment, nor have been in contact with animals from an establishment, in the case 
of donor animals of semen prior to their admission to a quarantine accommodation, which has been the subject to 
movement restrictions as regards infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis. The movement 
restrictions concerning the establishment are lifted after the period comprising of at least 42 days from the date of 
slaughter or killing and the disposal of the last animal infected or susceptible to that disease;
(b)	 they came from an establishment, in the case of donor animals of semen prior to their admission to a quarantine 
accommodation, which was free from infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis and have never 
been kept previously in any establishment of a lower health status;
(c)	 they fulfil additional animal health requirements laid down in Part 3 and Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 of Annex II.
Article 23
Additional animal health requirements for donor equine animals from which semen, oocytes and embryos 
were collected
1.  The centre veterinarian shall ensure that equine animals admitted to a semen collection centre and the team veterinarian 
shall ensure that equine animals used for the collection of oocytes and embryos or the production of embryos comply with 
the following requirements prior to the collection of the germinal products:
(a)	 they come from an establishment:
	 (i)	 where surra (Trypanosoma evansi) has not been reported during the period of the preceding 30 days, or where surra 
(Trypanosoma evansi) has been reported during the period of the preceding 2 years and following the last outbreak 
the affected establishment remained under movement restrictions until:
—	 the infected animals have been removed from the establishment, and
—	 the remaining animals in the establishment have been subjected to a test for surra (Trypanosoma evansi) with 
one of the diagnostic methods provided for in Part 3 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688, with 
negative results carried out on samples taken at least 6 months after the last infected animal has been removed 
from the establishment;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/24
EN
3.6.2020
	(ii)	 where dourine has not been reported during the period of the preceding 6 months, or where dourine has been 
reported during the period of the preceding 2 years and following the last outbreak the affected establishment 
remained under movement restrictions until:
—	 the infected animals have been killed and destroyed or slaughtered, or the infected entire male equine animals 
have been castrated, and
—	 the remaining equine animals in the establishment, with the exception of the castrated male equine animals 
referred to in the first indent kept apart from female equine animals, have been subjected to a test for dourine 
with one of the diagnostic methods provided for in Part 8 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688, 
with negative results, carried out on samples taken at least 6 months after the measures described in the first 
indent have been completed;
	(iii)	 where equine infectious anaemia has not been reported during the period of the preceding 90 days, or where equine 
infectious anaemia has been reported during the period of the preceding 12 months and following the last outbreak 
the affected establishment remained under movement restrictions until:
—	 the infected animals have been killed and destroyed or slaughtered, and
—	 the remaining equine animals in the establishment have been subjected to a test for equine infectious anaemia 
with one of the diagnostic methods provided for in Part 9 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688, 
with negative results, carried out on samples taken on two occasions at least 3 months apart after the measures 
described in the first indent have been completed and the establishment was cleaned and disinfected;
(b)	 in the case of semen donors, they were kept for a period of 30 days prior to the date of semen collection in establishments 
where no equine animal has shown any clinical sign of infection with equine arteritis virus or of contagious equine 
metritis during that period;
(c)	 they fulfil the additional animal health requirements laid down in Part 4 of Annex II.
2.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1(a), the movement restrictions referred to in paragraph 1(a)(i) to (iii) must remain 
in place for a period of at least 30 days, beginning on the day on which all the animals on the establishment of species listed 
for the respective disease referred to in paragraph 1(a)(i) to (iii) were either killed and destroyed or slaughtered, where allowed 
in accordance with paragraph 1(b), and the establishment was cleaned and disinfected.
S ectio n 3
L a b o r a to r y a n d ot h e r te s t s to b e c a r r i e d o u t o n ke p t d o n o r a n i m a l s o f t h e 
b ov i n e , p o rc i n e , ov i n e , c a p r i n e a n d e q u i n e s p e c i e s a n d ge r m i n a l p ro d u c t s 
t hereof
Article 24
Laboratory and other tests to be carried out on donor bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals 
and germinal products thereof
Operators shall ensure that:
(a)	 donor animals whose germinal products are to be moved to other Member States have undergone the following tests:
	 (i)	 for bovine animals, in Part 1 and as applicable in Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(ii)	 for porcine animals, in Part 2 and as applicable Chapters I and IV of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(iii)	 for ovine and caprine animals, in Part 3 and as applicable in Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(iv)	 for equine animals, in Part 4 of Annex II;
(b)	 all the tests referred to in point (a) are carried out in official laboratories.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/25
EN
Article 25
Authorisation for laboratory tests to be carried out on donor animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine and 
caprine species in quarantine accommodation
1.  The competent authority may authorise the following tests referred to in Annex II to be carried out on samples taken 
in the quarantine accommodation:
(a)	 for bovine animals, the tests referred to in point 1(b) of Chapter I of Part 1 thereof;
(b)	 for porcine animals, the tests referred to in point 1(b) of Chapter I of Part 2 thereof;
(c)	 for ovine and caprine animals, the tests referred to in point 1(c) of Chapter I of Part 3 thereof.
2. 
Where the competent authority has granted the authorisations referred to in paragraph 1, the following conditions 
shall be met:
(a)	 the period of quarantine in the quarantine accommodation must not commence before the date of sampling for the 
purpose of testing referred to in paragraph 1(a), (b) and (c);
(b)	 where results of any of the tests referred to in paragraph 1 are positive, the animal concerned must be immediately 
removed from the quarantine accommodation;
(c)	 in the case of quarantine of a group of animals, if any of the animals prove positive for a test referred to in paragraph 1, 
the quarantine in the quarantine accommodation must not commence for the remaining animals until the animal which 
proved positive has been removed from the quarantine accommodation.
S ectio n 4
Animal healt h req uirements for t he collection, production, processing, s tor age 
and ot her procedures of ger minal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, capr ine 
a nd eq ui ne ani mals
Article 26
Obligations on operators as regards the animal health requirements for the collection, production, 
processing and storage of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
Operators shall ensure that consignments of semen, oocytes and embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine 
animals are only moved to other Member States if those consignments fulfil the animal health requirements for the collection, 
production, processing and storage of germinal products set out in Annex III.
S ectio n 5
Animal healt h req uirements for t he tr anspor t of ger minal products of bovine, 
p o rc ine , ov ine, capr i ne and eq ui ne ani mals
Article 27
Responsibilities of centre veterinarians and team veterinarians for compliance with the animal health 
requirements for the transport of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
1. 
Where germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals are moved to another Member State 
or to a germinal product processing establishment or a germinal product storage centre within the same Member State, the 
centre veterinarian or the team veterinarian shall ensure that:
(a)	 the transport containers are sealed and numbered prior to their dispatch from the approved germinal product 
establishment;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/26
EN
3.6.2020
(b)	 the mark on the straws or other packages, applied in accordance with Article 10, corresponds with the number provided 
either in the animal health certificate or in the self-declaration document and on the container in which they are 
transported.
2.  The seal referred to in paragraph 1(a) applied under the responsibility of the centre veterinarian or the team veterinarian 
may be replaced by the official veterinarian.
Article 28
Responsibilities of operators for compliance with the animal health requirements for the transport of 
germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
1.  Operators shall only move semen, oocytes and embryos of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals to other 
Member States subject to compliance with the following conditions:
(a)	 only one type of germinal product of one species has been placed in the transport container;
(b)	 the transport container, referred to in point (a):
	(i)	 has been cleaned and either disinfected or sterilised before use, or is a new single-use container;
	(ii)	 has been filled in with the cryogenic agent which has not been previously used for other products.
2.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1, operators may place in one transport container semen, oocytes and embryos 
of the same species provided that:
(a)	 straws or other packages in which germinal products are placed are securely and hermetically sealed;
(b)	 the germinal products of different types are separated from each other by physical compartments or by being placed in 
secondary protective bags.
3. 
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, operators may place in one transport container semen, oocytes and 
embryos of ovine and caprine animals.
Article 29
Additional responsibilities on operators for the transport of semen of bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine 
animals
Where operators move to another Member State consignments of semen of bovine, porcine, ovine or caprine animals which 
has been collected from more than one donor animal and placed in a single straw or another package, the operators shall:
(a)	 ensure that the semen is collected and dispatched from a single semen collection centre or, in the case of the derogations 
provided for in Articles 13 and 14, a single establishment where it was collected;
(b)	 have procedures in place as regards the processing of that semen in order to ensure its traceability in accordance with 
Articles 10 and 19.
CHAPTER 2
Animal health certification, self-declaration and movement notification for germinal products of bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
Article 30
Rules on animal health certification
1.  Before issuing an animal health certificate for movements between Member States of consignments of germinal products 
of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals, the official veterinarian shall carry out:
(a)	 a visual examination of the transport container in order to verify if the requirements referred to in Article 28 have been 
fulfiled and to check:

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/27
EN
	(i)	 the seal and number applied by the centre or team veterinarian on the transport container as referred to in 
Article 27(1)(a); or
	(ii)	 if necessary, the germinal products placed in the transport container and to seal and number the transport container 
after that check;
(b)	 a documentary check of the data submitted by the centre or team veterinarian to ensure that:
	 (i)	 the information to be certified is supported by the records kept in accordance with Article 8;
	(ii)	 the mark on the straws or other packages, applied in accordance with Article 10, corresponds with the number 
provided in the animal health certificate and on the container in which they are transported;
	(iii)	 the requirements referred to in Chapter 1 of Part III have been fullfiled.
2.  The official veterinarian shall carry out the checks and examinations as provided for in paragraph 1 and issue the animal 
health certificate within the period of 72 hours preceding the time of dispatch of the consignment of germinal products.
3.  The animal health certificate shall be valid for a period of 10 days from the date of issuing.
Article 31
Information to be contained in the animal health certificate for germinal products of bovine, porcine, 
ovine, caprine and equine moved between Member States
The animal health certificates for movements between Member States of consignments of germinal products of bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals, shall contain at least the information set out in point 1 of Annex IV.
Article 32
Requirements concerning the self-declaration document for movements to and from germinal product 
processing establishments of consignments of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and 
equine animals
1.  Where an operator of an approved germinal product establishment of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals 
arranges for germinal products to be processed by a germinal product processing establishment, that operator shall ensure 
that a self-declaration document accompanies the consignment of the germinal products during the transport to and from 
that germinal product processing establishment.
2.  An operator of an approved germinal product establishment shall ensure that the self-declaration document referred to 
in paragraph 1 includes at least the following information:
(a)	 the name and address of the approved germinal product establishment of the collection or production of the germinal 
products;
(b)	 the name and address of the germinal product processing establishment to which the germinal products are moved for 
processing;
(c)	 the dates of movement of the consignment of the germinal products to and from a germinal product processing 
establishment;
(d)	 the type and the quantity of the germinal products;
(e)	 the marking of the germinal products, as required by Article 10.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/28
EN
3.6.2020
Article 33
Requirement for advance notification by operators of movements of consignments of germinal products 
of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals between Member States
Where consignments of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals are moved to another 
Member State, operators of approved germinal product establishments, establishments where ovine and caprine animals are 
kept as referred to in Article 13 or confined establishments as referred to in Article 14 shall notify the competent authority 
in their Member State of origin in advance of the intended movement of those consignments of germinal products.
Article 34
Information necessary to notify movements of consignments of germinal products of bovine, porcine, 
ovine, caprine and equine animals between Member States
Operators notifying the competent authority in their Member State of origin in accordance with Article 33, shall provide 
that competent authority with the information concerning each consignment of germinal products to be moved to another 
Member State provided for in:
(a)	 points 1(a) to (f) of Annex IV, where the germinal products are accompanied by an animal health certificate; or
(b)	 Article 32(2), where the germinal products are accompanied by a self-declaration document.
Article 35
Emergency procedures for the notification of movements of consignments of germinal products of 
bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals between Member States in the event of power cuts 
and other disturbances of IMSOC
1. 
In the event of power cuts and other disturbances of IMSOC, the competent authority of the place of origin of the 
consignment of germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals to be moved to another Member State 
shall notify the Commission and the competent authority of the place of destination of the movement of that consignment 
by fax or email.
2. 
The notification, referred to in paragraph 1, shall be done by the competent authority of the place of origin of the 
consignment of germinal products in accordance with the contingency arrangements to be applied in the event of unavailability 
of any of the functionalities IMSOC.
CHAPTER 3
Animal health requirements, animal health certification and notification for germinal products of animals 
other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals
Article 36
Animal health requirements for movements to other Member States of germinal products of dogs and cats
Operators shall only move to other Member States semen, oocytes and embryos collected from dogs (Canis lupus familiaris) 
and cats (Felis silvestris catus) which:
(a)	 have been born and remained since birth in the Union, or have entered the Union in accordance with the requirements 
for entry into the Union;
(b)	 come from an establishment where infection with rabies virus has not been confirmed for a period of at least 30 days 
prior to the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos;
(c)	 showed no disease symptoms on the day of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/29
EN
(d)	 are marked by the implantation of a transponder or by a clearly readable tattoo in accordance with Article 17(1) of 
Regulation (EU) No 576/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (17) or identified in accordance with 
Article 70 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2035;
(e)	 have received an anti-rabies vaccination that complies with the validity requirements set out in Part 1 of Annex VII to 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
(f)	 comply with any preventive health measure for diseases or infections other than rabies set out in Part 2 of Annex VII 
to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
(g)	 were not used for natural breeding during a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of collection of semen, oocytes 
or embryos and during the collection period.
Article 37
Animal health requirements for movements to other Member States between confined establishments 
of germinal products of kept terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine 
animals
Operators of confined establishments shall only move germinal products of terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, 
ovine, caprine and equine animals kept at those establishments to confined establishments in other Member States when 
the donor animals:
(a)	 have been born and remained since birth in the Union, or have entered the Union in accordance with the requirements 
for entry into the Union;
(b)	 have remained in a single confined establishment of origin for a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of collection 
of the semen, oocytes or embryos;
(c)	 do not come from an establishment, nor have been in contact with animals from an establishment, situated in a restricted 
zone established due to the occurrence of a category A disease or of an emerging disease relevant for the species in those 
kept terrestrial animals;
(d)	 come from an establishment where no category D disease relevant for that species has been reported for a period of at 
least 30 days prior to the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos;
(e)	 are identified and registered in accordance with the rules of that confined establishment;
(f)	 as much as possible, were not used for natural breeding during a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of first 
collection and during the period of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos intended for movement to another 
Member State;
(g)	 have been clinically examined by the establishment veterinarian responsible for the activities carried out at confined 
establishment, and show no disease symptoms on the day the semen, oocytes or embryos are collected.
Article 38
Animal health requirements for movements to other Member States of germinal products of animals of 
the families Camelidae and Cervidae
Operators shall only move to another Member State germinal products collected from animals of the family Camelidae or 
Cervidae which:
(a)	
have been born and remained since birth in the Union, or have entered the Union in accordance with the requirements 
for entry into the Union;
(17)	 Regulation (EU) No 576/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the non-commercial movement of pet 
animals and repealing Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 (OJ L 178, 28.6.2013, p. 1).

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/30
EN
3.6.2020
(b)	
have remained in a single establishment of origin for a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of collection of the 
semen, oocytes or embryos;
(c)	
do not come from an establishment, nor have been in contact with animals from an establishment, situated in a restricted 
zone established due to the occurrence of a category A disease or of an emerging disease relevant for the species in 
those kept terrestrial animals;
(d)	
come from an establishment where during a period of at least the preceding 12 months prior to the date of collection 
of the semen, oocytes or embryos:
	 (i)	 a surveillance programme to detect infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (M. bovis, M. caprae and 
M. tuberculosis) has been carried out in accordance with Part 2 or 3 of Annex II to Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2020/688;
	(ii)	 no animals of the family Camelidae or Cervidae which do not fulfil the requirements referred to in point (i) has been 
introduced;
	(iii)	 in case of suspicion of infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (M. bovis, M. caprae and M. tuberculosis), 
investigations were carried out and the disease was ruled out;
(e)	
come from an establishment:
	(i)	 where infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis has not been reported during the period of 
at least the preceding 42 days prior to the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos;
	(ii)	 in case of animals of the family Camelidae, where all animals present have been subjected to a test for infection with 
Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis as referred to in Part 1 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2020/688 with negative results carried out on samples taken during the period of the preceding 30 days prior to 
the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos;
(f)	
come from an establishment where infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis has not been 
reported during the period of at least the preceding 30 days prior to the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or 
embryos;
(g)	
come from an establishment where infection with epizootic haemorrhagic disease virus has not been reported during a 
period of at least the preceding 2 years prior to the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos within a radius 
of 150 km around the establishment;
(h)	
come from an establishment where infection with rabies virus has not been confirmed during the period of at least the 
preceding 30 days prior to the date of collection of the germinal products;
(i)	
come from an establishment where anthrax has not been reported during the period of at least the preceding 15 days 
prior to the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos collection;
(j)	
come from an establishment where surra (Trypanosoma evansi):
	(i)	 has not been reported during a period of at least the preceding 30 days prior to the date of collection of the semen, 
oocytes or embryos; or
	(ii)	 has been confirmed during the preceeding 2 years, but following the last outbreak of that disease the establishment 
has remained under movement restrictions until:
—	 the infected animals were removed from the establishment, and
—	 the remaining animals on the establishment were subjected to a test for surra (Trypanosoma evansi) referred to in 
Part 3 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688, with negative result, carried out on samples taken 
at least 6 months after the infected animals were removed from the establishment;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/31
EN
(k)	
fulfil animal health requirements as regards infection with bluetongue virus (serotypes 1-24) laid down in Chapter II of 
Part 5 of Annex II;
(l)	
have not been in contact with animals which did not comply with the requirements set out in point (a) and in points (c) 
to (k) during the residency period of at least 30 days set out in point (b);
(m)	 have been clinically examined by a veterinarian and showed no disease symptoms on the day of collection of the semen, 
oocytes or embryos;
(n)	
are identified in accordance with Article 73(1) or (2) or Article 74 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2035;
(o)	
were not used for natural breeding during a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of collection of the semen, 
oocytes or embryos and during the collection period.
Article 39
Rules concerning animal health certification
1.  Before signing an animal health certificate for movements between Member States of consignments of germinal products 
of dogs or cats, the official veterinarian shall carry out:
(a)	 a visual examination of the transport container in order to check:
	(i)	 the seal and number applied by the operator on the transport container; or
	(ii)	 if necessary, the germinal products placed in the transport container and to seal and number the transport container 
after that check;
(b)	 a documentary check of the data submitted by the operator to ensure that:
	 (i)	 the information to be certified is supported by the records kept at the establishment;
	(ii)	 the mark on the straws or other packages, applied in accordance with Article 11, corresponds with the number 
provided in the animal health certificate and on the container in which they are transported;
	(iii)	 the requirements referred to in Article 36 have been fullfiled.
2.  Before signing an animal health certificate for movements between Member States of consignments of germinal products 
of terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals kept at confined establishments, the official 
veterinarian shall carry out:
(a)	 a visual examination of the transport container in order to check:
	(i)	 the seal and number applied by the establishment veterinarian responsible for the activities carried out at confined 
establishment on the transport container; or
	(ii)	 if necessary, germinal products placed in the transport container and to seal and number the transport container 
after that check;
(b)	 a documentary check of the data submitted by the establishment veterinarian responsible for the activities carried out 
at confined establishment to ensure that:
	 (i)	 the information to be certified is supported by the records kept at the confined establishment;
	(ii)	 the mark on the straws or other packages, applied in accordance with Article 11, corresponds with the number 
provided in the animal health certificate and on the container in which they are transported;
	(iii)	 the requirements referred to in Article 37 have been fullfiled.
3.  Before signing an animal health certificate for movements between Member States of consignments of germinal products 
of animals of the family Camelidae or Cervidae, the official veterinarian shall carry out:
(a)	 a visual examination of the transport container in order to check:
	(i)	 the seal and number applied by the operator on the transport container; or

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/32
EN
3.6.2020
	(ii)	 if necessary, the germinal products placed in the transport container and to seal and number the transport container 
after that check;
(b)	 a documentary check of the data submitted by the operator to ensure that:
	 (i)	 the information to be certified is supported by the records kept at the establishment;
	(ii)	 the mark on the straws or other packages, applied in accordance with Article 11, corresponds with the number 
provided in the animal health certificate and on the container in which they are transported;
	(iii)	 the requirements referred to in Article 38 have been fullfiled.
4.  The official veterinarian shall carry out the checks and examinations as provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and issue 
the animal health certificate within the period of 72 hours preceding the time of dispatch of the consignment of germinal 
products.
5.  The animal health certificate provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be valid for 10 days from the date of issuing.
Article 40
Animal health certification requirements for movements of consignments of germinal products of kept 
terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals between Member States
The animal health certificates for movements between Member States of consignments of germinal products of dogs and 
cats, and of terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals kept at confined establishments 
or of animals of the family Camelidae or Cervidae, shall contain at least the information set out in point 2 of Annex IV.
Article 41
Requirement for advance notification by operators of movements of consignments of germinal products 
of kept terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals between Member 
States
Where consignments of germinal products of dogs or cats, of terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine 
or equine animals kept at confined establishments or of animals of the family Camelidae or Cervidae are moved to another 
Member State, the operator shall notify the competent authority in the Member State of origin of the consignments in advance 
of the intended movement of those consignments of germinal products.
Article 42
Information necessary to notify movements of consignments of germinal products of kept terrestrial 
animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals between Member States
Operators required to notify the competent authority in the Member State of origin of the consignments in accordance with 
Article 41, shall provide that competent authority with the information concerning each consignment of germinal products 
to be moved to another Member State provided for in point 2(a) to (f) of Annex IV.
Article 43
Emergency procedures for the notification of movements of consignments of germinal products of kept 
terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals between Member States 
in the event of power cuts and other disturbances of IMSOC
1. 
In the event of power cuts and other disturbances of IMSOC, the competent authority of the place of origin of the 
consignment of germinal products of dogs or cats, of terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or 
equine animals kept at confined establishments or of animals of the family Camelidae or Cervidae, to be moved to another 
Member State, shall notify the Commission and the competent authority of the place of destination of the movement of 
that consignment by fax or email.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/33
EN
2.  The notification, referred to in paragraph 1, shall be carried out by the competent authority of the place of origin of 
the consignment of the germinal products in accordance with the contingency arrangements to be applied in the event of 
unavailability of any of the functionalities of IMSOC.
CHAPTER 4
Additional rules for the granting of derogations by competent authorities for germinal products
Article 44
Additional rules for the granting of derogations by competent authorities for germinal products intended 
for scientific purposes
1.  The competent authorities of the Member States of origin may grant derogation for the movement to another Member 
State of germinal products intended for scientific purposes which do not fulfil the animal health requirements provided 
for in Chapter 1 or 3, provided the operator of the establishment of dispatch has obtained the prior written consent of the 
competent authority of the Member State of destination to accept the consignment of germinal products.
2.  The competent authority of the Member State of destination shall only consent to accept the consignment of germinal 
products referred to in paragraph 1, where the operator of the establishment of destination intended to receive those germinal 
products ensures that the germinal products are only used for scientific purposes under conditions that prevent the spread 
of category D diseases.
Article 45
Additional rules for the granting of derogations by competent authorities for germinal products moved 
to gene banks in another Member State
1.  The competent authorities of the Member States of origin may grant derogations for movements to gene banks in another 
Member State of germinal products, provided that the operator of the establishment of dispatch has obtained the prior written 
consent of the competent authority of the Member State of destination to accept the consignment of germinal products, of:
(a)	 endangered breeds which do not fulfil the animal health requirements provided for in Chapter 1; or
(b)	 terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept at confined establishments which 
do not fulfil the animal health requirements provided for in Article 37.
2.  The competent authority of the Member State of destination shall only consent to accept the consignment of germinal 
products referred to in paragraph 1, provided that:
(a)	 the operator of the gene bank intended to receive those germinal products ensures that the germinal products are only 
used for the ex situ conservation and sustainable use of genetic resources of kept terrestrial animals for which the receiving 
gene bank was established;
(b)	 it has sufficient information, including information provided by the competent authority of the Member State of origin 
or results of testing, or carries out treatment of the germinal products enabling it to prevent the spread of foot-and-
mouth disease, infection with rinderpest virus and other listed diseases.
Article 46
Rules on and information to be contained in the self-declaration document for germinal products intended 
for scientific purposes or to be moved to gene banks in another Member State
1. 
Where germinal products intended for scientific purposes or for storage at gene banks are to be moved to another 
Member State, the operator of the establishment of dispatch shall ensure that a self-declaration document accompanies the 
germinal products during the transport to the place of destination.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/34
EN
3.6.2020
2.  The operator of the establishment of dispatch shall ensure that the self-declaration document provided for in paragraph 1 
includes at least the following information:
(a)	 the name and address of the consignor and the consignee;
(b)	 the name and address of the place of dispatch and the place of destination;
(c)	 where the germinal products were moved to and from a germinal product processing establishment, the dates of those 
movements;
(d)	 the type of the germinal products and the species of donor animals;
(e)	 the number of straws or other packages in the consignment to be dispatched;
(f)	 the following information allowing the identification of germinal products:
	(i)	 the marking applied on the straws or other packages;
	(ii)	 the place and date of their collection or production;
(g)	 available results of the tests referred to in Article 45(2)(b).
Article 47
Advance notification by operators of movements of germinal products intended for scientific purposes 
or to gene banks between Member States
Where germinal products intended for scientific purposes or for storage at gene banks are moved to another Member 
State, the operator of the establishment of dispatch shall notify the competent authority in the Member State of origin of 
the consignment in advance of the intended movement of those germinal products and provide the information listed in 
Article 46(2)(a) to (g).
Article 48
Emergency procedures for the notification of movements between Member States of germinal products 
intended for scientific purposes or to gene banks in the event of power cuts and other disturbances of 
IMSOC
1. 
In the event of power cuts and other disturbances of IMSOC, the competent authority of the place of origin of the 
consignment of germinal products intended for scientific purposes or for storage at gene banks, to be moved to another 
Member State, shall notify the Commission and the competent authority of the place of destination of the movement of 
that consignment by fax or email.
2. 
The notification, referred to in paragraph 1, shall be done by the competent authority of the place of origin of the 
consignment of the germinal products in accordance with the contingency arrangements to be applied in the event of 
unavailability of any of the functionalities of IMSOC.
PART IV
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 49
Transitional measures
1. 
Semen collection centres, semen storage centres, embryo collection teams and embryo production teams which have 
been approved before 21 April 2021 in accordance with Directives 88/407/EEC, 89/556/EEC, 90/429/EEC and 92/65/EEC 
referred to in the 6th, 7th, 8th and 12th indents of Article 270(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 shall be considered to have 
been approved in accordance with this Regulation.
In all other respects, they shall be subject to the rules provided for in this Regulation, and in Regulation (EU) 2016/429.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/35
EN
2.  Straws and other packages in which semen, oocytes or embryos, whether or not separated into individual doses, are placed, 
stored and transported, marked before 21 April 2021 in accordance with Directives 88/407/EEC, 89/556/EEC, 90/429/EEC 
and 92/65/EEC shall be considered to have been marked in accordance with this Regulation.
3. 
Animal health certificates issued before 21 April 2021 in accordance with Directives 88/407/EEC, 89/556/EEC, 
90/429/EEC and 92/65/EEC shall be considered to have been issued in accordance with this Regulation.
Article 50
Entry into force and application
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union.
It shall apply from 21 April 2021.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 17 December 2019.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/36
EN
3.6.2020
ANNEX I
RULES FOR THE COLLECTION, PRODUCTION, PROCESSING AND STORAGE OF GERMINAL PRODUCTS OF 
BOVINE, PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND EQUINE ANIMALS AS REFERRED TO IN CHAPTER 1 OF PART II
PART 1
REQUIREMENTS FOR SEMEN COLLECTION CENTRES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 4
1.	 The responsibilities of the centre veterinarian, as referred to in Article 4(1)(a)(i), shall be the following:
(a)	 the centre veterinarian shall ensure that:
	 (i)	 at the semen collection centre, only animals which have not been used for natural breeding for a period of at 
least 30 days prior to the date of the first semen collection and during the collection period are kept;
	 (ii)	 at the semen collection centre, records are kept in accordance with the requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(a);
	 (iii)	 the entry of unauthorised persons is prevented;
	 (iv)	 authorised visitors comply with the animal health and biosecurity requirements referred to in point (c)(i);
	 (v)	 each individual dose of semen is clearly marked in accordance with the requirements laid down in Article 10;
	 (vi)	 the collection, processing and storage of semen takes place only on the premises set aside for that purpose 
and under strict hygiene conditions;
	(vii)	 only semen collected at a semen collection centre is processed and stored at that semen collection centre, and 
it must not come into contact with any other consignment of germinal products of lesser health status;
	(viii)	 all instruments which come into contact with the semen or the donor animal during the collection and 
processing of semen are cleaned and either disinfected or sterilised prior to use, except for new single-use 
instruments;
	 (ix)	 where, in the case of equine animals, the semen collection centre is located within the perimeters of a registered 
establishment which also hosts an artificial insemination or service centre, there is a strict separation between 
the instruments and equipment coming into contact with donor animals, their semen and other animals kept 
in the semen collection centre and the semen, instruments and equipment used for artificial insemination or 
natural service;
	 (x)	 any biological product originating from animals used in the processing of semen, including diluents, additives 
or extenders, is obtained from sources which present no animal health risk or which are treated prior to use 
so that such risk is prevented;
	 (xi)	 before the commencement of each filling operation, the storage containers and transport containers are cleaned 
and either disinfected or sterilised, except for new single-use containers;
	(xii)	 the cryogenic agents used for the preservation or storage of semen have not previously been used for other 
products;
	(xiii)	 the staff employed at the semen collection centre have received adequate training on disinfection and hygiene 
techniques to prevent the spread of diseases;
(b)	 by way of derogation from point (a)(vii), the centre veterinarian may authorise semen that was not collected at a 
semen collection centre to be processed at the semen collection centre provided that the following conditions are 
met:

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/37
EN
	 (i)	 such semen is collected from animals which fulfil the following requirements set out in Annex II
—	 in respect of bovine animals, the requirements set out in point 1(b) of Chapter I of Part 1, and as applicable 
in Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 thereof,
—	 in respect of porcine animals, the requirements set out in point 1(b) of Chapter I of Part 2, and as applicable 
in Chapters I and IV of Part 5 thereof,
—	 in respect of ovine and caprine animals, the requirements set out in point 1(c) of Chapter I of Part 3, and 
as applicable in Chapters I, II and III of Part 5 thereof,
—	 in respect of equine animals, in point 1(a) of Chapter I of Part 4 thereof;
	(ii)	 processing is carried out with separate equipment or at a different time from semen intended to be moved to 
another Member State, and the equipment in the latter case must be cleaned and sterilised after use;
	(iii)	 such semen is not moved to another Member State and does not at any time come into contact with, or is stored 
with, semen intended to be moved to another Member State;
	(iv)	 such semen is identifiable by a marking which must be different from that referred to in point (a)(v);
(c)	 the centre veterinarian shall:
	(i)	 lay down the animal health and biosecurity requirements for the operation of the semen collection centre and 
the measures to ensure compliance with those requirements;
	(ii)	 only accept into the semen collection centre animals of species whose semen is to be collected;
(d)	 by way of derogation from point (c)(ii), the centre veterinarian may authorise kept animals other than bovine, porcine, 
ovine, caprine or equine animals to be admitted to the semen collection centre, provided that they present no risk of 
infection to those species whose semen is to be collected, and they comply with the animal health and biosecurity 
requirements referred to in point (c)(i);
(e)	 the centre veterinarian of a semen collection centre for equine animals, located within the perimeters of a registered 
establishment which also hosts an artificial insemination or service centre, shall ensure that equine animals entering 
the establishment meet the requirements of Article 23(1)(a) to (c) and may decide that where direct contact of donor 
male equine animals with female equine animals or castrated male equine animals for teasing or with uncastrated 
male equine animals used on the establishment outside the semen collection centre for natural service cannot be 
excluded, those female and male equine animals must meet all the requirements of Article 23(1).
2.	 The requirements for the facilities, equipment and operational procedures of the semen collection centre, as referred to 
in Article 4(1)(b)(i), shall be the following:
(a)	 the semen collection centre must have at least:
	 (i)	 lockable animal accommodation and, if required, an exercise area for equine animals which is physically separated 
from the semen collection facilities, the semen processing room and the storage room;
	(ii)	 isolation facilities for animals which have failed tests referred to in Annex II of this Regulation or which show 
symptoms or signs of any of the category D diseases relevant for the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine 
animals, and which have no direct connection with the regular animal accommodation referred to in point (i);
	(iii)	 semen collection facilities that may be open air provided that they are protected from adverse weather effects 
and are equipped with slip-proof flooring at and around the place of semen collection;
	(iv)	 a separate room for the cleansing and disinfection or sterilisation of equipment;
	(v)	 a semen processing room, separated from the semen collection facilities and the room for cleansing equipment 
referred to in point (iv), which need not necessarily be on the same site;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/38
EN
3.6.2020
	(vi)	 a semen storage room, which need not necessarily be on the same site; the semen storage room must be furnished 
with the necessary installation to store germinal products, which must be so constructed that it protects those 
germinal products and the installation from adverse weather and environment effects;
(b)	 the semen collection centre must be so constructed or isolated that contact with outside livestock is prevented;
(c)	 the semen collection centre must be so constructed that, except for the office rooms and, in the case of equine 
animals, the exercise area, it can be readily cleansed and disinfected;
(d)	 the semen collection centre must be so constructed that unauthorised access of people is effectively prevented.
PART 2
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPROVAL OF AN EMBRYO COLLECTION TEAM REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 4
1.	 The responsibilities of the team veterinarian of an embryo collection team, as referred to in Article 4(1)(a)(ii), shall be 
the following:
(a)	 the team veterinarian shall be responsible for all embryo collection team operations, including, amongst others, the 
following:
	 (i)	 the verification of the identity and health status of donor animals;
	(ii)	 the clinical examination and surgery of donor animals;
	(iii)	 the disinfection and hygiene procedures, including procedures ensuring the transport of embryos to the laboratory 
in a hygienic and safe manner;
	(iv)	 record-keeping in accordance with the requirements laid down in Article 8(1)(b);
	(v)	 the marking of straws and other packages where embryos are placed in accordance with the requirements set 
out in Article 10(1) and (5);
	(vi)	 the training of members of the embryo collection team on disinfection and hygiene techniques to prevent the 
spread of diseases;
(b)	 the team veterinarian shall lay down the animal health and biosecurity requirements for the operation of the embryo 
collection team and the measures to ensure compliance with those requirements, including the testing of samples 
within a quality control scheme.
2.	 The facilities, equipment and operational procedures of the embryo collection team, as referred to in Article 4(1)(b)(ii), 
shall comply with the following points (a) and (b):
(a)	 the embryo collection team must have at its disposal a laboratory where embryos can be examined, processed and 
packaged with adequate equipment, and that laboratory must be either:
	(i)	 a permanently located laboratory, which must have the following:
—	 a room where embryos can be processed which is physically separated from the area used to handle the 
donor animals during collection,
—	 a room or area for cleansing and sterilising instruments used for embryo collection and processing, except 
when using only new single-use equipment,
—	 a room for the storing of embryos;
	or

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/39
EN
	(ii)	 a mobile laboratory, which must:
—	 have a specially equipped part of the vehicle consisting of two separate sections: one section for the 
examination and processing of embryos, which must be the clean section; and another section for 
accommodating equipment and materials used in contact with the donor animals,
—	 use only new single-use equipment, unless the sterilisation of its equipment and the provision of fluids 
and other products necessary for the collection and processing of embryos is carried out at a permanently 
located laboratory.
The laboratories referred to in points (i) and (ii) must be designed and have a layout so as to prevent the cross-
contamination of embryos, and team operations shall be carried out in a manner that prevents such cross-
contamination;
(b)	 the embryo collection team must have at its disposal storage premises which comply with the following conditions:
	 (i)	 they comprise at least one lockable room for the storage of embryos;
	(ii)	 they must be easy to cleanse and disinfect;
	(iii)	 they must have permanent records of all incoming and outgoing embryos;
	(iv)	 they must have storage containers for embryos.
PART 3
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPROVAL OF AN EMBRYO PRODUCTION TEAM REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 4
1.	 In addition to the responsibilities listed in point 1 of Part 2 of this Annex, the team veterinarian of an embryo production 
team, referred to in Article 4(1)(a)(ii), shall ensure that the embryo production team members have received adequate 
training on disease control and laboratory techniques, particularly on procedures for working in sterile conditions.
2.	 In addition to the requirements listed in point 2 of Part 2 of this Annex, the facilities, equipment and operational procedures 
of an embryo production team, referred to in Article 4(1)(b)(iii), shall comply with the following requirements:
(a)	 the embryo production team must have at its disposal a permanently located laboratory which must have:
	(i)	 adequate equipment and facilities, including separate rooms or areas for:
—	 the recovery of oocytes from ovaries,
—	 the processing of oocytes and embryos, and
—	 the storing of embryos and semen;
	(ii)	 a laminar flow facility or other suitable facilities where all technical operations associated with specific sterile 
conditions (namely, the processing of oocytes, embryos and semen) are conducted; however, the centrifugation 
of semen may be carried out outside the laminar flow facility or other facility as long as full hygiene precautions 
are taken;
(b)	 where oocytes and other tissues are to be collected in a slaughterhouse, the embryo production team must have at 
its disposal suitable equipment for the collection and transport of the ovaries and other tissues to the processing 
laboratory in a hygienic and safe manner;
(c)	 the embryo production team may outsource the collection of oocytes to a group of specialised professionals provided 
that their activity is included in the approval by the competent authority of the embryo production team and the 
responsibilities of the team veterinarian referred to in point 1 are extended to their activities;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/40
EN
3.6.2020
(d)	 the embryo production team shall use semen which:
	(i)	 meets the requirements of this Regulation;
	(ii)	 is stored for the operation of the embryo production team in separate storage containers in the premises referred 
to in point 2(b) of Part 2 for the storing of produced embryos.
PART 4
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPROVAL OF A GERMINAL PRODUCT PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT REFERRED 
TO IN ARTICLE 4
1.	 The responsibilities of the centre veterinarian, referred to in Article 4(1)(a)(i), shall be the following:
(a)	 the centre veterinarian shall ensure that:
	 (i)	 at the germinal product processing establishment records are kept in accordance with the requirements laid 
down in Article 8(1)(c);
	 (ii)	 the entry of unauthorised persons is prevented;
	 (iii)	 authorised visitors comply with the animal health and biosecurity requirements referred to in point (b)(i);
	 (iv)	 each individual dose of semen, oocytes or embryos is clearly marked in accordance with the traceability 
requirements set out in Article 10;
	 (v)	 the processing and storage of germinal products takes place only on the premises set aside for that purpose 
and under strict hygiene conditions;
	 (vi)	 all instruments which come into contact with the germinal products are cleansed and either disinfected or 
sterilised prior to use, except for new single-use instruments;
	(vii)	 before the commencement of each filling operation, the storage containers and transport containers are cleansed 
and either disinfected or sterilised, except for new single-use containers;
	(viii)	 cryogenic agents used for the preservation or storage of germinal products have not previously been used for 
other products;
	 (ix)	 the staff of the germinal product processing establishment have received adequate training:
—	 on disinfection and hygiene techniques to prevent the spread of diseases,
—	 for the purpose of processing germinal products, on laboratory techniques and particularly on procedures 
for working in sterile conditions;
(b)	 the centre veterinarian shall:
	(i)	 lay down the animal health and biosecurity requirements for the operation of the germinal product processing 
establishment and the measures to ensure compliance with those requirements;
	(ii)	 only accept into a germinal product processing establishment semen, oocytes or embryos collected, produced, 
processed and stored in an approved germinal product establishment, and transported under conditions that 
ensure that cross-contamination of semen, oocytes or embryos is prevented, as they have had no contact with 
germinal products which do not comply with the rules laid down in this Regulation.
2.	 The requirements for the facilities, equipment and operational procedures of a germinal product processing establishment, 
referred to in Article 4(1)(b)(iv), shall be the following:
(a)	 the germinal product processing establishment must have at least:
	 (i)	 a germinal products processing room, separated from the germinal products storage room referred to in point (ii) 
and the room used for cleansing equipment referred to in point (iii);

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/41
EN
	(ii)	 a germinal products storage room, which need not necessarily be on the same site, furnished with the necessary 
installation to store germinal products, and which is so constructed that it protects those germinal products 
and the installation from adverse weather and environment effects;
	(iii)	 a separate room for the cleansing and disinfection or sterilisation of equipment;
(b)	 where processing is not limited to germinal products delivered from one approved germinal product establishment or 
is not limited to a germinal product of one type or of a single species, the germinal product processing establishment 
must have procedures in place to ensure that:
	(i)	 the processing of each consignment of germinal products is separated in time; and
	(ii)	 the equipment is cleansed and disinfected between the processing of different consignments;
(c)	 where storage is not limited to a germinal product of one type or of a single species,
	(i)	 the germinal product processing establishment must have distinct storage containers assigned for each type and 
species of germinal product that is stored in the germinal products storage room referred to in point (a)(ii), and
	(ii)	 the handling of stored germinal products of different types and species must be carried out by separate staff or 
at a different time;
(d)	 the germinal product processing establishment must be so constructed that, except the office rooms, it can be readily 
cleansed and disinfected;
(e)	 the germinal product processing establishment must be so constructed that unauthorised access of people is effectively 
prevented.
PART 5
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPROVAL OF A GERMINAL PRODUCT STORAGE CENTRE REFERRED TO IN 
ARTICLE 4
1.	 The responsibilities of the centre veterinarian, referred to in Article 4(1)(a)(i), shall be the following:
(a)	 the centre veterinarian shall ensure that:
	 (i)	 at the germinal product storage centre records are kept in accordance with the requirements laid down in 
Article 8(1)(c);
	 (ii)	 the entry of unauthorised persons is effectively prevented;
	 (iii)	 authorised visitors comply with the animal health and biosecurity requirements referred to in point (b)(i);
	 (iv)	 each individual dose of semen, oocytes or embryos is clearly marked in accordance with the requirements set 
out in Article 10;
	 (v)	 storage of germinal products takes place only on the premises set aside for that purpose and under strict 
hygiene conditions;
	 (vi)	 all instruments which come into contact with the germinal products are cleansed and either disinfected or 
sterilised prior to use, except for new single-use instruments;
	(vii)	 before the commencement of each filling operation, the storage containers and transport containers are cleansed 
and either disinfected or sterilised, except for new single-use containers;
	(viii)	 cryogenic agents used for preservation or storage of germinal products have not previously been used for other 
products;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/42
EN
3.6.2020
	 (ix)	 the staff employed at the germinal product storage centre have received adequate training on disinfection and 
hygiene techniques to prevent the spread of diseases;
(b)	 the centre veterinarian shall:
	(i)	 lay down the animal health and biosecurity requirements for the operation of the germinal product storage 
centre and the measures to ensure compliance with those requirements;
	(ii)	 only accept into a germinal product storage centre semen, oocytes or embryos collected, produced, processed 
and stored in an approved germinal product establishment, and transported in conditions which ensure that 
cross-contamination of semen, oocytes or embryos is prevented, as they have had no contact with germinal 
products which do not comply with the rules laid down in this Regulation.
2.	 The requirements for the facilities, equipment and operational procedures of a germinal product storage centre, referred 
to in Article 4(1)(b)(v), shall be the following:
(a)	 the germinal product storage centre must have a storage room furnished with necessary installation to store germinal 
products, which is so constructed that it protects those germinal products and the installation from adverse weather 
and environment effects;
(b)	 where storage is not limited to a germinal product of one type or of a single species,
	(i)	 the germinal product storage centre must have distinct storage containers assigned for each type and species of 
germinal product that is stored at the centre, and
	(ii)	 the handling of stored germinal products of different types and species must be carried out by separate staff or 
at a different time;
(c)	 the germinal product storage centre must be so constructed that, except the office rooms, it can be readily cleansed 
and disinfected;
(d)	 the germinal product storage centre must be so constructed or isolated that contact with outside livestock is prevented;
(e)	 the germinal product storage centre must be so constructed that unauthorised access of people is effectively prevented.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/43
EN
ANNEX II
ADDITIONAL ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR BOVINE, OVINE, CAPRINE, PORCINE AND EQUINE 
ANIMALS FROM WHICH GERMINAL PRODUCTS ARE COLLECTED, AND CONCERNING QUARANTINE AND 
LABORATORY OR OTHER TESTS OF THOSE ANIMALS AS REFERRED TO IN SECTION 2 OF CHAPTER 1 OF 
PART III
PART 1
ADDITIONAL ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR BOVINE ANIMALS FROM WHICH GERMINAL 
PRODUCTS ARE COLLECTED, AND CONCERNING QUARANTINE AND LABORATORY OR OTHER TESTS OF 
THOSE ANIMALS, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 20
Chapter  I
Addi ti o na l a nim a l h e a l t h re q uirements for bov i ne ani mals from w hi ch semen 
is collected, and concer ning q uar antine and labor ator y or ot her tes ts for t hose 
ani mals
1.	 For all bovine animals admitted to a semen collection centre, the following requirements shall apply:
(a)	 the animals must have been subjected to quarantine in quarantine accommodation where only other cloven-hoofed 
animals with at least the same health status were present;
(b)	 within the period of 30 days prior to the commencement of the quarantine referred to in point (a), the animals must 
have been subjected to the following tests with a negative result in each case, except for the bovine viral diarrhoea 
antibody test referred to in point (v):
	 (i)	 for infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (M. bovis, M. caprae and M. tuberculosis), an intradermal 
tuberculin test referred to in point 1 of Part 2 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
	(ii)	 for infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a serological test referred to in point 1 of 
Part 1 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
	(iii)	 for enzootic bovine leukosis, a serological test referred to in point (a) of Part 4 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/688, using the derogation provided for in Article 20(2)(a);
	(iv)	 for infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis, a serological test (whole virus) on a blood 
sample if the animals do not come from an establishment free from infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious 
pustular vulvovaginitis;
	(v)	 for bovine viral diarrhoea:
—	 a virus isolation test, a test for virus genome or a test for virus antigen, and
—	 a serological test to determine the presence or absence of antibodies;
(c)	 during the quarantine referred to in point (a), and for a period of at least 21 days, or 7 days in the case of the tests 
required in accordance with points (iv) and (v), after being admitted to the quarantine accommodation, the animals 
must have been subjected to the following tests with a negative result in each case, except for the bovine viral diarrhoea 
antibody test referred to in point (iii):
	 (i)	 for infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a serological test referred to in point 1 of 
Part 1 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
	(ii)	 for infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis, a serological test (whole virus) on a blood 
sample.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/44
EN
3.6.2020
If any animals prove positive, these animals shall be removed immediately from the quarantine accommodation 
and the other animals of the same group shall remain in quarantine and be retested, with negative results, not 
earlier than on the 21st day from the date of the removal of the positive animal(s);
	(iii)	 for bovine viral diarrhoea:
—	 a virus isolation test, a test for virus genome or a test for virus antigen, and
—	 a serological test to determine the presence or absence of antibodies.
Any seronegative or seropositive animal shall only be allowed to enter the semen collection centre if 
no seroconversion occurs in animals which tested seronegative before entry into the quarantine accommodation.
If seroconversion occurs, all animals that remain seronegative shall be kept in quarantine accommodation over 
a prolonged period until there is no longer seroconversion in the group of animals for a period of 3 weeks. 
Serologically positive animals may be allowed to enter the semen collection centre;
	(iv)	 for bovine genital campylobacteriosis (Campylobacter fetus ssp. venerealis):
—	 in the case of animals less than 6 months old or kept since that age in a single sex group without contact 
with females prior to the quarantine referred to in point (a), a single test carried out on a sample of artificial 
vagina washings or preputial specimen, or
—	 tests carried out on samples of artificial vagina washings or preputial specimens taken on three occasions 
at intervals of at least 7 days;
	(v)	 for trichomonosis (Trichomonas foetus):
—	 in the case of animals less than 6 months old or kept since that age in a single sex group without contact 
with females prior to the quarantine referred to in point (a), a single test carried out on a sample of preputial 
specimen, or
—	 tests carried out on preputial specimens taken on three occasions at intervals of at least 7 days.
If any of the tests referred to in point (c) prove positive, the animal concerned shall be removed immediately from 
the quarantine accommodation. In the event of the quarantine of a group of animals, the competent authority shall 
take all necessary measures to re-establish the eligibility of the remaining animals for entry into the semen collection 
centre in accordance with Chapter I of Part 1 of this Annex;
(d)	 prior to the initial dispatch of semen from bovine viral diarrhoea serologically positive bulls, a semen sample from 
each animal shall be subjected to a virus isolation or virus antigen enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for 
bovine viral diarrhoea. In the event of a positive result, the bull shall be removed from the semen collection centre 
and all of its semen shall be destroyed.
2.	 All bovine animals kept at a semen collection centre shall be subjected at least once a year to the following tests (compulsory 
routine tests), with negative results:
(a)	 for infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (M. bovis, M. caprae and M. tuberculosis), an intradermal tuberculin 
test referred to in point 1 of Part 2 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
(b)	 for infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a serological test referred to in point 1 of Part 1 
of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
(c)	 for enzootic bovine leukosis, a serological test referred to in point (a) of Part 4 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/688;
(d)	 for infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis, a serological test (whole virus) on a blood 
sample;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/45
EN
(e)	 for bovine viral diarrhoea, a serological test for the detection of an antibody which is applied only to seronegative 
animals.
In the event that an animal becomes serologically positive, every ejaculate of that animal collected since the last 
negative test shall be either discarded or tested for virus or virus genome with negative results;
(f)	 for bovine genital campylobacteriosis, a test on a sample of preputial specimen. Only bulls in semen production or 
having contact with bulls in semen production shall be required to be tested. Bulls returning to collection after a 
lay-off period of more than 6 months shall be tested during a period of 30 days prior to resuming production;
(g)	 for trichomonosis, a test on a sample of preputial specimen. Only bulls in semen production or having contact with 
bulls in semen production shall be required to be tested. Bulls returning to collection after a lay-off period of more 
than 6 months shall be tested during a period of 30 days prior to resuming production.
3.	 If any of the tests referred to in point 2 prove positive, the animal shall be isolated and the semen collected from it since 
the last negative test shall not be moved to another Member State, with the exception, for bovine viral diarrhoea, of semen 
from every ejaculate which has been tested negative for either bovine viral diarrhoea virus or virus genome.
The animal referred to in the first subparagraph shall be removed from the semen collection centre.
Semen collected from all other animals at the semen collection centre since the date when the last sample was taken that 
gave a negative result in one of the tests described in point 2 shall be kept in separate storage and shall not be subject 
to movement between Member States until the health status of the semen collection centre has been restored and the 
semen stored has undergone the appropriate official investigations to rule out the presence in the semen of pathogens 
that cause diseases referred to in point 2.
Chapter   I I
Addi ti o na l a nim a l h e a l t h re q ui rements for bov i ne ani mals w hi ch are i n vi vo 
der i ve d e m b r yo s do no r s , a nd concer ni ng t he q uar anti ne of t hose ani mals
1.	 Donor bovine animals must have been clinically examined by the team veterinarian or a team member and certified to 
be free of symptoms or signs of any of the category D diseases relevant for the animals of the bovine species on the day 
of embryo collection.
2.	 Semen used to inseminate donor bovine animals artificially must have been collected, processed and stored in accordance 
with the requirements of Chapter I of Part 1 of Annex II, and of Part 1 of Annex III.
Chapter  I I I
Additional animal healt h req uirements for bovine animals from which oocytes 
fo r i n vit ro p ro duc t io n o f e m b r yos are collected, and concer ni ng q uar anti ne 
of t hose ani mals
1.	 When oocytes are recovered from individual live bovine animals (either by aspiration from surgically excised ovaries 
(‘ovariectomy’) or by ultrasonographically guided transvaginal aspiration (‘ovum pick-up’), the requirements laid down 
in Chapter II shall apply to the donor animals of such oocytes.
2.	 In the case of donor bovine animals of ovaries and other tissues to be collected after slaughter in a slaughterhouse, those 
animals must not have been designated for slaughter as part of an approved eradication programme, nor have come from 
an establishment situated in a restricted zone established due to an outbreak of a category A disease or of an emerging 
disease in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 in donor bovine animals.
3.	 The slaughterhouse where the ovaries and other tissues are collected must not be situated in a restricted zone established 
due to an outbreak of a category A disease or of an emerging disease in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 
2016/429 in donor bovine animals.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/46
EN
3.6.2020
4.	 Semen used to fertilise oocytes of bovine animals for in vitro production of embryos must have been collected, processed 
and stored in accordance with the requirements of Chapter I of Part 1 of Annex II, and of Part 1 of Annex III.
PART 2
ADDITIONAL ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR PORCINE ANIMALS FROM WHICH GERMINAL 
PRODUCTS ARE COLLECTED, AND CONCERNING QUARANTINE AND LABORATORY OR OTHER TESTS OF 
THOSE ANIMALS, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 21
Chapter  I
Additional animal healt h req uirements for porcine animals from which semen 
is collected, and concer ning q uar antine and labor ator y or ot her tes ts of t hose 
ani mals
1.	 For all porcine animals admitted to a semen collection centre, the following requirements shall apply:
(a)	 the animals must have been subjected to quarantine in quarantine accommodation where only other cloven-hoofed 
animals with at least the same health status were present;
(b)	 within a period of 30 days prior to entering the quarantine accommodation referred to in point (a), the animals 
must have been subjected to the following tests, with negative results:
	 (i)	 as regards infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a buffered Brucella antigen test (rose 
Bengal test), a competitive ELISA or an indirect ELISA for the detection of antibodies to smooth Brucella species.
If any of the animals prove positive in the serological tests detecting antibodies to smooth Brucella species 
(including Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis), animals with negative results in the same 
establishment shall not be admitted into the quarantine accommodation until a disease-free status of the 
infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis of the establishments of origin of the animals 
that proved positive has been confirmed;
	(ii)	 as regards infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus:
—	 in the case of non-vaccinated animals, an ELISA to detect antibodies to the whole Aujeszky’s disease virus 
or to glycoprotein B (ADV-gB) or glycoprotein D (ADV-gD) of the virus or a serum neutralisation test,
—	 in the case of animals vaccinated with a gE deleted vaccine, an ELISA to detect antibodies to glycoprotein 
E (ADV-gE) of Aujeszky’s disease virus.
The serological tests for infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus must meet the standards set out in Part 7 of 
Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
	(iii)	 as regards classical swine fever, an antibody ELISA or serum neutralisation test, in case of animals coming from 
a Member State or zone thereof where classical swine fever has been reported or vaccination against this disease 
has been practiced for the period of the preceding 12 months;
	(iv)	 as regards infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus, a serological test (the 
immunoperoxidase monolayer assay (IPMA), immunofluorescence assay (IFA), or ELISA);
(c)	 the animals have been subjected to the following tests carried out on samples taken during a period of at least 21 days 
after being admitted to the quarantine accommodation referred to in point (a):
	 (i)	 as regards infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a buffered Brucella antigen test (rose 
Bengal test), a competitive ELISA or an indirect ELISA for the detection of antibodies to smooth Brucella species.
Animals which proved positive in a test referred to in the first subparagraph are to be removed from the 
quarantine accommodation, unless the suspicion of infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella 
suis has been ruled out in accordance with point (d);

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/47
EN
	(ii)	 as regards infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus:
—	 in the case of non-vaccinated animals, an ELISA to detect antibodies to the whole Aujeszky’s disease virus 
or to glycoprotein B (ADV-gB) or glycoprotein D (ADV-gD) of the virus or a serum neutralisation test,
—	 in the case of animals vaccinated with a gE deleted vaccine, an ELISA to detect antibodies to glycoprotein 
E (ADV-gE) of Aujeszky’s disease virus.
If any of the animals prove positive in the tests for infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus, those animals shall 
be removed immediately from the quarantine accommodation;
	(iii)	 as regards classical swine fever, an antibody ELISA or serum neutralisation test, in case of animals coming from 
a Member State or zone thereof where classical swine fever has not been reported and vaccination against this 
disease has not been practiced for the period of the preceding 12 months;
	(iv)	 as regards infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus, a serological test (IPMA, IFA, 
or ELISA) and a test for virus genome (reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), nested set 
RT-PCR, real-time RT-PCR).
If any of the animals prove positive in the tests for infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome 
virus, those animals shall be removed immediately from the quarantine accommodation.
Where a group of animals is quarantined, the competent authority shall take all necessary measures to ensure 
that the remaining animals which have proved negative in the tests referred to in points (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) have a 
satisfactory health status before they are admitted to the semen collection centre in accordance with this Chapter;
(d)	 the following measures shall be taken in the case of a suspicion of infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis 
and Brucella suis:
	 (i)	 the following protocol shall be implemented with regard to animals which have proved positive for infection 
with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis in a test referred to in point (c)(i):
—	 the positive sera are subjected to at least one of the alternative tests set out in point (c)(i) which has not 
been carried out on the samples referred to in point (c),
—	 an epidemiological enquiry is carried out on the establishment(s) of origin of the animals which have proved 
positive in the test for infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis,
—	 not earlier than 7 days following the date of the collection of the samples referred to in point (c), samples 
are taken from all the animals which have proved positive in the tests referred to in point (c)(i) and in 
the first indent of point (d)(i) and subjected to a serological test provided for in point (c)(i), or all animals 
referred to in point (c) are subjected to a brucelin skin test;
	(ii)	 the suspicion of infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis shall be ruled out provided 
that the epidemiological enquiry on the establishment(s) of origin did not reveal the presence of infection with 
Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis and either:
—	 the repeat testing referred to in the first indent of point (d)(i) or the test referred to in the third indent of 
point (d)(i) were carried out with a negative result,
or
—	 all animals which proved positive in the tests referred to in the first or third indent of point (d)(i) have been 
subjected to a post-mortem inspection and agent detection test (PCR or bacteriological culture) for smooth 
Brucella species (including Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis), with a negative result in each 
case;
	(iii)	 after the suspicion of infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis is ruled out, all of the 
animals from the quarantine accommodation referred to in the second paragraph of point (c) may be admitted 
to the semen collection centre.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/48
EN
3.6.2020
2.	 Compulsory routine testing of porcine animals kept at semen collection centres shall be carried out as follows:
(a)	 all porcine animals kept at the semen collection centre shall be subjected to the following tests with negative results:
	 (i)	 as regards infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a buffered Brucella antigen test (rose 
Bengal test), or a competitive ELISA or an indirect ELISA;
	(ii)	 as regards infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus:
—	 in the case of non-vaccinated animals, an ELISA to detect antibodies to the whole Aujeszky’s disease virus 
or to glycoprotein B (ADV-gB) or glycoprotein D (ADV-gD) of the virus or a serum neutralisation test,
—	 in the case of animals vaccinated with a gE deleted vaccine, an ELISA to detect antibodies to glycoprotein 
E (ADV-gE) of Aujeszky’s disease virus;
	(iii)	 as regards classical swine fever, an antibody ELISA or serum neutralisation test;
	(iv)	 as regards infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus, a serological test (IPMA, IFA, or 
ELISA);
(b)	 the tests set out in point (a) shall be carried out on samples taken from:
	(i)	 all animals immediately prior to leaving the semen collection centre, or upon arrival at the slaughterhouse, and 
in no case later than 12 months from the date of admission to the semen collection centre;
	or
	(ii)	 at least:
—	 25 % of the animals in the semen collection centre every 3 months to test for infection with Brucella abortus, 
Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus and classical swine fever and from 
at least 10 % of the animals in the semen collection centre every month to test for infection with porcine 
reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus,
or
—	 10 % of the animals in the semen collection centre every month to test for infection with Brucella abortus, 
Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus, classical swine fever and infection 
with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus.
In the case of sampling carried out in accordance with the two options listed in point (ii), the centre veterinarian 
shall ensure that the sampled animals are representative of the total population of that centre, in particular with 
respect to age groups and housing;
(c)	 where the testing is carried out in accordance with point 2(b)(ii), the centre veterinarian shall ensure that all animals 
are tested for the diseases referred to in point 2(a) at least every 12 months from the date of admission to the semen 
collection centre.
3.	 If any of the tests set out in point 2(a) prove positive, the animal shall be isolated and the semen collected from them 
since the last negative test shall not be the subject of movement between Member States.
The animal referred to in the first subparagraph shall be removed immediately from the semen collection centre.
Semen collected from all other animals present at the semen collection centre since the date when the last sample was 
taken that gave a negative result in one of the tests described in point 2(a) shall be kept in separate storage and shall 
not be the subject of movement between Member States until the health status of the semen collection centre has been 
restored and the semen stored has undergone the appropriate official investigations to rule out the presence in the semen 
of pathogens that cause diseases referred to in point 2(a).

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/49
EN
Chapter   I I
Additional animal healt h req uirements for porcine animals from which oocytes 
a n d embr yo s a re c o l l e c te d, a n d concer ni ng t he q uar anti ne of t hose ani mals
1.	 Donor porcine animals must have been clinically examined by the team veterinarian or a team member and certified to 
be free of symptoms or signs of any of the category D diseases relevant for the porcine animals on the day of oocyte or 
embryo collection.
2.	 In addition to the requirements referred to in point 1, donor porcine females shall, except donors of in vivo derived embryos 
subject to trypsin treatment, come from a Member State or zone thereof which is free from infection with Aujeszky’s 
disease virus or where an approved eradication programme for infection with Aujeszky’s disease virus is carried out.
3.	 As regards infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus, the donor porcine females of in vivo 
derived embryos shall be subjected to a serological test for infection with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome 
virus, with negative results, on two occasions, at an interval of not less than 21 days, the second test being performed 
within a period of 15 days prior to embryo collection.
4.	 Semen used to inseminate donor porcine animals artificially must have been collected, processed and stored in accordance 
with the requirements of Chapter I of Part 2 of Annex II, and of Part 1 of Annex III.
PART 3
ADDITIONAL ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR OVINE AND CAPRINE ANIMALS FROM WHICH 
GERMINAL PRODUCTS ARE COLLECTED, AND CONCERNING THE QUARANTINE AND LABORATORY OR 
OTHER TESTS OF THOSE ANIMALS, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 22
Chapter  I
Ad d i t i o n a l a n i m a l h e a l t h re q u i re m e n t s fo r ov i n e a n d c a p r i n e a n i m a l s f ro m 
w h i ch s e m e n i s c o l l e c te d, a n d c o n c e r n i n g t h e q ua r a n t i ne a n d l a b o r a to r y o r 
ot h e r tes ts of t hose ani mals
1.	 For all ovine and caprine animals admitted to a semen collection centre, the following requirements shall apply:
(a)	 the animals must have been subjected to quarantine in quarantine accommodation where only other cloven-hoofed 
animals with at least the same health status were present;
(b)	 in the case of ovine animals, they must come from an establishment where, during the period of 60 days prior to 
their stay in the quarantine accommodation referred to in point (a), they have been subjected to a serological test 
for ovine epidydimitis (Brucella ovis) or any other test with an equivalent documented sensitivity and specificity.
In the case where ovine animals are kept together with caprine animals, those caprine animals shall also be subjected 
to a serological test for ovine epididymitis (Brucella ovis) with negative results;
(c)	 the animals have been subjected to the following tests carried out on a blood sample taken within a period of 30 days 
preceding the commencement of the period of quarantine referred to in point (a), with a negative result in each case:
	(i)	 for infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a serological test referred to in point 1 of 
Part 1 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
	(ii)	 in the case of ovine animals, for ovine epidydimitis (Brucella ovis), a serological test or any other test with an 
equivalent documented sensitivity and specificity.
In the case where ovine animals are kept together with caprine animals, those caprine animals shall also be subjected 
to a serological test for ovine epididymitis (Brucella ovis) with negative results;
(d)	 the animals have been subjected to the following tests carried out on samples taken during the period of quarantine 
referred to in point (a), and within a period of at least 21 days from the date of being admitted to the quarantine 
accommodation, with negative results:
	(i)	 for infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a serological test referred to in point 1 of 
Part 1 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/50
EN
3.6.2020
	(ii)	 in the case of ovine animals, for ovine epidydimitis (Brucella ovis), a serological test or any other test with an 
equivalent documented sensitivity and specificity.
In the case where ovine animals are kept together with caprine animals, those caprine animals shall also be 
subjected to a serological test for ovine epididymitis (Brucella ovis) with negative results.
2.	 All ovine and caprine animals kept at an approved semen collection centre shall be subjected at least once a year to the 
following tests (compulsory routine tests), with negative results:
(a)	 for infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, a serological test referred to in point 1 of Part 1 
of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688;
(b)	 in the case of ovine animals, for ovine epidydimitis (Brucella ovis) a serological test or any other test with an equivalent 
documented sensitivity and specificity.
In the case where ovine animals are kept together with caprine animals, those caprine animals shall also be subjected 
to a serological test for ovine epididymitis (Brucella ovis) with negative results.
3.	 If any of the tests described in point 2 prove positive, the animal shall be isolated and the semen collected from it since 
the date of the last negative test shall not be moved between Member States.
The animal referred to in the first subparagraph shall be removed from the semen collection centre.
Semen collected from all other animals present at the semen collection centre since the date when the last sample was 
taken that gave a negative result in one of the tests described in point 2 shall be kept in separate storage and shall not be 
moved between Member States until the health status of the semen collection centre has been restored and the semen 
stored has undergone the appropriate official investigations to rule out the presence in the semen of pathogens that 
cause diseases referred to in point 2.
Chapter   I I
Ad d i t i o n a l a n i m a l h e a l t h re q u i re m e n t s fo r ov i n e a n d c a p r i n e a n i m a l s f ro m 
wh i ch o o c y te s a nd e m br yo s a re collected, and concer ni ng t he q uar anti ne of 
t hose ani mals
1.	 Donor ovine and caprine animals must have been clinically examined by the team veterinarian or a team member and 
certified to be free of symptoms or signs of any of the category D diseases relevant for the animals of the ovine and 
caprine species on the day of collection of the oocytes or embryos.
2.	 Semen used to inseminate donor ovine and caprine animals artificially must have been collected, processed and stored 
in accordance with the requirements of Chapter I of Part 3 of Annex II, and of Part 1 of Annex III.
PART 4
ADDITIONAL ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR EQUINE ANIMALS FROM WHICH GERMINAL 
PRODUCTS ARE COLLECTED, AND CONCERNING THE QUARANTINE AND LABORATORY OR OTHER TESTS 
OF THOSE ANIMALS, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 23
Chapter  I
Addi ti o na l a nim a l h e a l t h re q uirements for eq ui ne ani mals from w hi ch semen 
i s c olle c te d, a nd c o nc e r ning t he q uar anti ne and labor ator y or ot her tes ts of 
t hose ani mals
1.	 In order to be used for the collection of semen, the donor equine animal shall, to the satisfaction of the centre veterinarian, 
meet the following requirements:
(a)	 the animal shall be subjected to the following tests, in accordance with one of the testing programmes provided for 
in point (b):
	 (i)	 an agar-gel immuno-diffusion test (Coggins test) or an ELISA for equine infectious anaemia with a negative 
result;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/51
EN
	(ii)	 a test for the isolation of the equine arteritis virus or the detection of its genome by polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) or real-time PCR carried out with a negative result on an aliquot of the entire semen of the donor stallion, 
unless the donor stallion has been subjected to a serum neutralisation test for equine viral arteritis where a 
negative result was obtained at a serum dilution of one in four;
	(iii)	 an agent identification test for contagious equine metritis (Taylorella equigenitalis), carried out with a negative 
result in each case on three specimens (swabs) taken from the donor stallion on two occasions with an interval 
of not less than 7 days, and in any case no earlier than 7 days (systemic treatment) or 21 days (local treatment) 
after the possible antimicrobial treatment of the donor stallion, from at least the following sites:
—	 the penile sheath (prepuce),
—	 the urethra,
—	 the fossa glandis.
The specimens shall be placed in a transport medium with activated charcoal, such as Amies medium, before 
being dispatched to the laboratory.
The specimens shall be subjected to at least one of the following tests:
—	 culture under microaerophilic conditions for a period of at least 7 days for the isolation of Taylorella 
equigenitalis, set up within 24 hours from the time of taking the specimens from the donor animal, or 
48 hours where the specimens are kept cool during transport,
or
—	 PCR or real-time PCR for the detection of genome of Taylorella equigenitalis, carried out within 48 hours 
from the time of taking the specimens from the donor animal;
(b)	 the animal shall be subjected to one of the following testing programmes:
	 (i)	 if the donor stallion is continuously resident at the semen collection centre for a period of at least 30 days 
prior to the date of the first semen collection and during the collection period, and no equine animals in the 
semen collection centre come into direct contact with equine animals of a lower health status than the donor 
stallion, the tests required in accordance with point (a) shall be carried out on samples taken from the donor 
stallion at least once a year (compulsory routine tests) at the beginning of the breeding season or prior to the 
first collection of semen intended for movement to another Member State as fresh, chilled or frozen semen and 
not less than 14 days following the date of the commencement of the residence period of at least 30 days prior 
to the date of first semen collection;
	(ii)	 if the donor stallion is resident at the semen collection centre for a period of at least 30 days prior to the date 
of the first semen collection and during the collection period, but it may leave the semen collection centre 
occasionally, under the responsibility of the centre veterinarian, for a total period of less than 14 days during 
the collection period, or other equine animals in the semen collection centre come into direct contact with 
equine animals of a lower health status, the tests required in accordance with point (a) shall be carried out as 
follows:
—	 at least once a year on samples taken from the donor stallion at the beginning of the breeding season or 
prior to the first collection of semen intended for movement to another Member State as fresh, chilled or 
frozen semen and not less than 14 days following the date of the commencement of the residence period 
of at least 30 days prior to the date of first semen collection,
and
—	 during the period of collection of semen intended for movement to another Member State as fresh, chilled 
or frozen semen as follows:
—	 the test required in point (a)(i) on samples taken not more than 90 days prior to the date of the collection 
of semen intended for movement to another Member State,
—	 the test required in point (a)(ii) on samples taken not more than 30 days prior to the date of the 
collection of semen intended for movement to another Member State, unless the non-shedder state of 
the donor stallion is confirmed by a virus isolation test, PCR or real-time PCR carried out on samples 
of an aliquot of the entire semen taken not more than 6 months prior to the date of the collection 
of semen intended for movement to another Member State and the donor stallion has been subjected 
to a serum neutralisation test for equine viral arteritis with a positive result at a serum dilution of at 
least one in four,

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/52
EN
3.6.2020
—	 the test required in point (a)(iii) on samples taken not more than 60 days prior to the date of the 
collection of semen intended for movement to another Member State, which in the case of PCR or 
real-time PCR may be carried out on three specimens (swabs) taken on a single occasion;
	(iii)	 if the donor stallion does not meet the conditions set out in points (i) and (ii) and the semen is collected for 
movement to another Member State as frozen semen, the tests required in accordance with point (a) shall be 
carried out on samples taken from the donor stallion as follows:
—	 at least once a year at the beginning of the breeding season,
—	 during the storage period provided for in point 2(b) of Part 1 of Annex III and before the semen is removed 
from the semen collection centre or used, on samples taken not earlier than 14 days and not later than 
90 days following the date of collection of the semen.
By way of derogation from the second indent of point (iii), post-collection sampling and testing for equine viral 
arteritis as described in point (a)(ii) shall not be required where the non-shedder state of a seropositive donor 
stallion is confirmed by a virus isolation test, PCR or real-time PCR carried out with a negative result on samples 
of an aliquot of the entire semen of the donor stallion taken twice a year at an interval of at least 4 months 
and the donor stallion has been subjected to a serum neutralisation test for equine viral arteritis with a positive 
result at a serum dilution of at least one in four;
(c)	 if any of the tests provided for in point (b) prove positive, the donor stallion shall be isolated and the semen collected 
from it since the date of the last negative test shall not be moved between Member States with the exception, for 
equine viral arteritis, of semen from every ejaculate which has undergone the equine arteritis virus isolation test 
with a negative result.
Semen collected from all other stallions at the semen collection centre since the date when the last sample was 
taken that gave a negative result in one of the tests provided for in point (b) shall be kept in separate storage and 
shall not be moved between Member States until the health status of the semen collection centre has been restored 
and the semen stored has undergone the appropriate official investigations to rule out the presence in the semen of 
pathogens that cause diseases referred to in point (b).
Chapter   I I
Additional animal healt h req uirements for eq uine animals from which oocytes 
a n d embr yo s a re c o l l e c te d, a nd concer ni ng t he q uar anti ne and labor ator y or 
ot h e r tes ts of t hose ani mals
1.	 Donor equine animals must have been clinically examined by the team veterinarian or a team member and certified to 
be free of symptoms or signs of any of the category D diseases relevant for the animals of the equine species on the day 
of oocyte or embryo collection.
2.	 In addition to the requirements referred to in point 1, donor equine animals shall:
(a)	 not be used for natural breeding during a period of at least 30 days prior to the date of collection of oocytes or 
embryos and between the date of the first sample referred to in points (b) and (c) and the date of the collection of 
oocytes and embryos;
(b)	 be subjected with a negative result to an agar-gel immuno-diffusion test (Coggins test) or an ELISA for equine infectious 
anaemia carried out on a blood sample taken not less than 14 days following the date of the commencement of the 
period of at least 30 days referred to in point (a) and not more than 90 days prior to the date of the collection of 
oocytes or embryos for movement between Member States;
(c)	 be subjected to an agent identification test for contagious equine metritis (Taylorella equigenitalis), carried out with a 
negative result in each case on at least two specimens (swabs) taken from the donor animal, which must in any case 
not be earlier than 7 days (systemic treatment) or 21 days (local treatment) after the possible antimicrobial treatment 
of the donor animal, from at least the following sites:
—	 the mucosal surfaces of the clitoral fossa,
—	 the clitoral sinuses.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/53
EN
The specimens shall be taken during the period of at least 30 days referred to in point (a) on two occasions with an 
interval of not less than 7 days in the case of the test referred to in point (i) below, or on one occasion in the case of the 
test referred to in point (ii) below.
The specimens shall be placed in a transport medium with activated charcoal, such as Amies medium, before being 
dispatched to the laboratory.
The specimens shall be subjected to at least one of the following tests:
	(i)	 culture under microaerophilic conditions for a period of at least 7 days for the isolation of Taylorella equigenitalis, set 
up within 24 hours from the time of taking the specimens from the donor animal, or 48 hours where the specimens 
are kept cool during transport;
	or
	(ii)	 PCR or real-time PCR for the detection of genome of Taylorella equigenitalis, carried out within 48 hours from the 
time of taking the specimens from the donor animal.
3.	 Semen used to inseminate donor animals artificially must have been collected, processed and stored in accordance with 
the requirements of Chapter I of Part 4 of Annex II, and of Part 1 of Annex III.
PART 5
OTHER ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR BOVINE, PORCINE, OVINE AND CAPRINE ANIMALS AND 
ANIMALS OF THE FAMILIES CAMELIDAE AND CERVIDAE FROM WHICH GERMINAL PRODUCTS ARE 
COLLECTED, AND CONCERNING THE QUARANTINE AND LABORATORY OR OTHER TESTS OF THOSE 
ANIMALS, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLES 20, 21, 22 AND 38
Chapter  I
Re q u i re m e n t s fo r b ov i n e , p o rc i n e , ov i n e a n d c a p r i n e a n i m a l s a s re g a rd s 
fo ot-and-mout h di sease
1.	 The bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine animals which are semen, oocyte or embryo donors must:
(a)	 come from establishments:
	(i)	 situated in an area where foot-and-mouth disease has not been reported within a 10-km radius centred on the 
establishment for a period of at least 30 days immediately prior to the date of collection;
	(ii)	 in which foot-and-mouth disease has not been reported during a period of at least 3 months immediately prior 
to the date of collection;
(b)	 have not been vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease during the period of 12 months immediately prior to the 
date of collection.
2.	 The centre veterinarian shall ensure that:
(a)	 the bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine animals which are semen donors are only admitted to the semen collection 
centre after they have undergone isolation in the quarantine accommodation, which on the day of admission of the 
animals to the semen collection centre must:
	(i)	 be situated in an area where foot-and-mouth disease has not been reported within a 10-km radius centred on 
the quarantine accommodation for a period of at least 30 days;
	(ii)	 have had no outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease reported during the period of 3 months preceding the date of 
admission of the animals into the semen collection centre;
(b)	 semen is only moved to another Member State subject to compliance with the following conditions:
	 (i)	 the semen collection centre is situated in an area where foot-and-mouth disease has not been reported within 
a 10-km radius centred on the semen collection centre for a period of at least 30 days;

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/54
EN
3.6.2020
	(ii)	 the semen collection centre has been free from foot-and-mouth disease for a period of at least 3 months prior 
to the date of collection of the semen and 30 days from the date of collection or, in the case of fresh semen, 
until the date of dispatch of the consignment of semen to another Member State;
	(iii)	 in the case of fresh semen, the donor animal has been kept at the semen collection centre referred to in point (i) 
for a continuous period of at least 30 days immediately prior to the date of collection of the semen.
3.	 By way of derogation from point 1(b), the centre veterinarian may authorise the dispatch of semen collected from a kept 
donor animal which has been vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease during the period of 12 months immediately 
prior to the date of collection, provided that:
(a)	 the donor animal has not been vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease within the period of at least 30 days 
immediately prior to the date of collection;
(b)	 5 % (with a minimum of five straws) of each quantity of semen taken from a donor animal at any time is submitted 
to a virus isolation test for foot and mouth disease with negative results.
4.	 By way of derogation from point 1(b), the team veterinarian may authorise the dispatch, to another Member State, of in 
vivo derived embryos collected from a donor animal which has been vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease during 
the 12-month period immediately prior to the date of collection, provided that:
(a)	 the female donor animal has not been vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease within the period of at least 30 days 
immediately prior to the date of collection;
(b)	 the semen used for fertilisation was collected from a male donor that complies with the conditions set out in point 1(b) 
or the semen complies with the conditions set out in point 2;
(c)	 prior to freezing, the embryos have been subjected to trypsin washing carried out in accordance with the 
recommendations of the IETS Manual (1);
(d)	 the embryos are stored deep frozen for a period of at least 30 days from the date of collection, and during this period 
the donor animal has not shown clinical signs of foot-and-mouth disease.
Chapter   I I
Re q u i re m e n t s fo r b ov i n e , ov i n e a n d c a p r i n e a n i m a l s a n d fo r a n i m a l s o f t h e 
f a m i l i e s C a m e l i d a e a n d C e r v i d a e a s re g a rd s i n fe c t i o n w i t h b l u e to n g u e v i r u s 
( seroty pes 1-24 )
1.	 The bovine, ovine and caprine animals and animals of the families Camelidae and Cervidae which are semen donors must 
fulfil at least one of the following conditions:
(a)	 they have been kept in a Member State or zone thereof free from infection with bluetongue virus (serotypes 1-24) 
for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection of the semen;
(b)	 they have been kept in a seasonally disease-free zone, during the seasonally disease-free period, for a period of at 
least 60 days prior to and during collection of the semen, in a Member State or zone thereof:
	(i)	 with an approved eradication programme against infection with bluetongue virus (serotype 1-24); or
	(ii)	 where the competent authority of the place of origin of the consignment of semen has obtained the prior written 
consent of the competent authority of the Member State of destination to the conditions for establishment of 
that seasonally disease-free zone and to accept the consignment of semen;
(c)	 they have been kept in a vector-protected establishment for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection 
of the semen;
(d)	 they have been subjected to a serological test to detect antibodies to the bluetongue virus serogroup 1-24, with 
negative results, between 28 and 60 days from the date of each collection of the semen;
(1)	 Manual of the International Embryo Transfer Society – A procedural guide and general information for the use of embryo transfer technology 
emphasising sanitary procedures, published by the International Embryo Transfer Society 1 111 North Dunlap Avenue, Savoy, Illinois 
61 874 USA (http://www.iets.org/).

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/55
EN
(e)	 they have been subjected to an agent identification test for bluetongue virus (serotypes 1-24), with negative results, 
on blood samples taken at commencement and final collection of the semen and during collection of the semen at 
intervals of:
	(i)	 at least every 7 days, in the case of the virus isolation test;
	or
	(ii)	 at least every 28 days, in the case of PCR.
2.	 The ovine and caprine animals and animals of the families Camelidae and Cervidae which are in vivo derived embryo donors 
and bovine, ovine and caprine animals and animals of the families Camelidae and Cervidae which are oocyte donors for 
the in vitro production of embryos must fulfil at least one of the following conditions:
(a)	 they have been kept in a Member State or zone thereof free from infection with bluetongue virus (serotypes 1-24) 
for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection of the oocytes or embryos;
(b)	 they have been kept in a seasonally disease-free zone, during the seasonally disease-free period, for a period of at 
least 60 days prior to and during collection of the oocytes or embryos, in a Member State or zone thereof:
	(i)	 with an approved eradication programme against infection with bluetongue virus (serotype 1-24); or
	(ii)	 where the competent authority of the place of origin of the consignment of oocytes or embryos has obtained 
the prior written consent of the competent authority of the Member State of destination to the conditions for 
establishment of that seasonally disease-free zone and to accept the consignment of oocytes or embryos;
(c)	 they have been kept in a vector-protected establishment for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection 
of the oocytes or embryos;
(d)	 they have been subjected to a serological test to detect antibodies to the bluetongue virus serogroup 1-24, with 
negative results, on a blood sample taken between 28 and 60 days from the date of collection of the oocytes or 
embryos;
(e)	 they have been subjected to an agent identification test for bluetongue virus (serotypes 1-24), with negative results, 
on a blood sample taken on the date of collection of the oocytes or embryos.
3.	 The semen used to fertilise the oocytes must be collected from animals which comply with the requirements set out in 
point 1.
Chapter  I I I
Req uirements for bovine, ovine and capr ine animals as reg ards infection wit h 
t he epizo ot ic haemo r rhagic d ise ase vir us (se rotype s 1-7 )
1.	 The bovine, ovine and caprine animals which are semen donors must fulfil at least one of the following conditions:
(a)	 they have been kept for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection of the semen in a Member State 
or zone thereof where infection with epizootic haemorrhagic disease virus (serotypes 1-7) (EHDV 1-7) has not been 
reported for a period of at least the preceding 2 years within a radius of 150 km of the establishment;
(b)	 they have been kept in a vector-protected establishment for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection 
of the semen;
(c)	 they have been subjected to a serological test to detect antibodies to EHDV 1-7, with negative results, at least every 
60 days throughout the collection period and between 28 and 60 days from the date of the final collection of the 
semen;
(d)	 they have been subjected to an agent identification test for EHDV 1-7, with negative results, on blood samples taken 
at the commencement and final collection of the semen and during the collection of the semen at intervals of:
	(i)	 at least every 7 days, in the case of virus isolation test;
	or
	(ii)	 at least every 28 days, in the case of PCR.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/56
EN
3.6.2020
2.	 The ovine and caprine animals which are in vivo derived embryo donors and bovine, ovine and caprine animals which 
are oocyte donors for the in vitro production of embryos must fulfil at least one of the following conditions:
(a)	 they have been kept for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection of the oocytes or embryos in a 
Member State or zone where EHDV 1-7 has not been reported for a period of at least the preceding 2 years within 
a radius of 150 km of the establishment;
(b)	 they have been kept in a vector-protected establishment for a period of at least 60 days prior to and during collection 
of the oocytes or embryos;
(c)	 they have been subjected to a serological test to detect antibodies to EHDV 1-7, with negative results, on a blood 
sample taken between 28 and 60 days from the date of collection of the oocytes or embryos;
(d)	 they have been subjected to an agent identification test for EHDV 1-7, with negative results, on a blood sample taken 
on the date of collection of the oocytes or embryos.
3.	 The semen used to fertilise the oocytes must be collected from animals which comply with the requirements set out in 
point 1.
Chapter  I V
Req ui re m e nt s fo r a n e s t a bl is h ment to be consi dered free from i nfecti on w i t h 
B r uc e l l a a b o r t u s , Br u c e l l a me li t ensi s and B r ucella sui s i n porci ne ani mals
To qualify as free from infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis, an establishment of porcine animals 
must satisfy the following requirements:
(a)	 infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis must be a notifiabledisease in porcine animals in the 
Member State;
(b)	 infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis has not been confirmed in the establishment for a 
period of at least the preceding 3 years;
(c)	 animals showing clinical signs consistent with infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis such as 
abortions or orchitis are subjected to the necessary diagnostic tests with negative results;
(d)	 no porcine animals belonging to the establishment have been vaccinated against infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella 
melitensis and Brucella suis for at least the preceding 3 years;
(e)	 porcine animals which have been introduced to the establishment:
	(i)	 either come from establishments free from infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis for a 
period of at least the preceding 3 years, or were tested on a sample taken within a period of 30 days prior to the 
date of dispatch with negative results;
	and
	(ii)	 have not been vaccinated against infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis for a period of at 
least the preceding 3 years;
(f)	
for a period of at least the preceding 3 years, there has been no evidence of infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis 
and Brucella suis in other epidemiological units of the same establishment, or measures have been implemented to prevent 
any transmission of infection with Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis from those other epidemiological 
units.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/57
EN
ANNEX III
ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR THE COLLECTION, PRODUCTION, PROCESSING AND STORAGE OF 
GERMINAL PRODUCTS OF BOVINE, PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND EQUINE ANIMALS AS REFERRED TO 
IN ARTICLE 26
PART 1
ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR THE COLLECTION, PROCESSING AND STORAGE OF FRESH, 
CHILLED OR FROZEN SEMEN OF BOVINE, PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND EQUINE ANIMALS, AND FOR 
THE TRANSPORT OF THAT SEMEN
1.	 All instruments used for the collection, processing, preservation or freezing of semen shall be cleansed and either 
disinfected or sterilised before use, except for new single-use instruments.
2.	 Frozen semen shall:
(a)	 be placed and stored in storage containers:
	(i)	 which have been cleansed and either disinfected or sterilised before use, or which are new single-use containers;
	(ii)	 with a cryogenic agent, which must not have previously been used for other biological products originating 
from animals;
(b)	 prior to dispatch or use, be stored in approved conditions for a minimum period of 30 days from the date of 
collection.
3.	 Where necessary, the antibiotics or mixtures of antibiotics with a bactericidal activity at least equivalent to that of the 
following antibiotics or their mixtures in each ml of semen, may be added to semen or contained in semen diluents:
(a) in the case of semen of bovine and porcine animals, a mixture of lincomycin-spectinomycin (150/300 μg), penicillin 
(500 IU) and streptomycin (500 μg); or
(b) in the case of semen of ovine and caprine animals, gentamicin (250 μg) or a mixture of penicillin (500 IU) and 
streptomycin (500 μg); or
(c) a mixture of gentamicin (250 μg), tylosin (50 μg), lincomycin-spectinomycin (150/300 μg), penicillin (500 IU) and 
streptomycin (500 μg); or
(d) a mixture of amikacin (75 μg) and divekacin (25 μg).
4.	 In respect of semen of bovine animals, antibiotics referred to in point 3(a), (c) and (d), or semen diluents containing such 
antibiotics or mixtures of antibiotics, shall be added and be effective in particular against campylobacters, leptospires and 
mycoplasmas.
5.	 In respect of semen of porcine animals, antibiotics or mixtures of antibiotics referred to in point 3(a), (c) and (d), or 
semen diluents containing such antibiotics or mixtures of antibiotics, shall be added and be effective in particular against 
leptospires.
6.	 Where an antibiotic or a mixture of antibiotics is(are) added to semen:
(a)	 the name(s) of the antibiotic(s) added and its(their) concentration or the commercial name of the semen diluent 
containing antibiotics shall be stated in the animal health certificate accompanying the consignment;
(b)	 it(they) shall be added to the semen after final dilution or to the diluent;
(c)	 in the case of frozen semen, it(they) shall be added before the semen is frozen.
7.	 For frozen or chilled semen, immediately after the addition of the antibiotics, the diluted semen shall be kept at:
(a)	 a temperature of at least 5 °C, except in the case of semen of porcine animals, which may be kept at a temperature 
of at least 15 °C for a period of not less than 45 minutes; or
(b)	 a time-temperature regime with a documented equivalent bactericidal activity.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/58
EN
3.6.2020
PART 2
ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR THE COLLECTION AND PROCESSING OF IN VIVO DERIVED EMBRYOS 
OF BOVINE, PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND EQUINE ANIMALS
In vivo derived embryos shall be collected, processed and preserved in accordance with the following requirements:
1.	
Embryos shall be collected and processed by an embryo collection team, without coming into contact with any other 
consignment of embryos not complying with the requirements of this Regulation.
2.	
Embryos shall be collected in a place which is separated from other parts of the premises or establishment and which 
shall be kept in good repair and constructed with materials which permit its effective and easy cleansing and disinfection.
3.	
Embryos shall be processed (examined, washed, treated and placed in straws or other packages) in either a permanently 
located laboratory or a mobile laboratory.
4.	
All equipment used to collect, handle, wash, freeze and store embryos shall be cleansed and either disinfected or sterilised 
before use, according to the IETS Manual, or be a new single-use equipment.
5.	
Any biological product originating from animals used in the media and solutions for the collection, processing, washing 
or storage of embryos shall be free from pathogenic microorganisms. Media and solutions used in the collection, freezing 
and storage of embryos shall be sterilised by methods approved in accordance with the IETS Manual and handled in 
such a manner as to ensure sterility.
6.	
Where, according to the IETS Manual, antibiotics or a mixture of antibiotics are added to the collection, processing, 
washing and storage media, the names of the antibiotics added and their concentration shall be stated in the animal 
health certificate accompanying the consignment.
7.	
The cryogenic agents used for the preservation or storage of embryos shall not have previously been used for other 
biological products originating from animals.
8.	
The embryos shall be washed according to the IETS Manual and have an intact zona pellucida or, in the case of equine 
embryos, the embryonic capsule, before and immediately after washing. Each embryo shall be washed at least 10 times 
in a special fluid for embryos, which shall be changed each time. Each wash shall be a 100-fold dilution of the previous 
wash and a sterile micropipette shall be used to transfer the embryo on each occasion.
The standard washing procedure shall be modified to include additional washes with the enzyme trypsin, according to 
the IETS Manual, when inactivation or removal of certain pathogens is required.
9.	
Embryos from different donor animals shall not be washed together.
10.	 The zona pellucida or, in the case of equine embryos, the embryonic capsule of each embryo shall be examined over its 
entire surface area at not less than 50× magnification and certified to be intact and free of adherent material.
11.	 Embryos that have successfully undergone the examination set out in point 10 shall be placed in a cleansed and 
either disinfected or sterile, except for a new single-use, straw or another package which is marked in accordance with 
Article 10(1) and (5) and which shall be sealed immediately.
12.	 Each embryo shall, where appropriate, be frozen as soon as possible and stored in a storage premises, referred to in 
point 2(b) of Part 2 of Annex I, which is under the responsibility of the team veterinarian.

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/59
EN
13.	 Where there is no other procedure to verify the health status of the donor animals, or in order to verify compliance with 
the animal health and biosecurity requirements laid down by the team veterinarian, including in the framework of the 
quality control scheme referred to in point 1(b) of Part 2 of Annex I, the embryo collection team shall, in accordance 
with the IETS Manual, submit to an official or authorised by the competent authority laboratory routine samples of 
non-viable embryos or oocytes, flushing fluids or washing fluids resulting from its activities for the detection of bacterial 
and viral contamination at a frequency to be established by the team veterinarian.
PART 3
ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR THE COLLECTION AND PROCESSING OF OOCYTES, OVARIES AND 
OTHER TISSUES FOR IN VITRO PRODUCTION OF EMBRYOS OF BOVINE, PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND 
EQUINE ANIMALS
In addition to the requirements set out in Part 2, the following additional requirements shall apply to the collection, processing 
and transport of oocytes, ovaries and other tissues for use in in vitro fertilisation and in vitro culture:
1.	 The ovaries and other tissues collected at a slaughterhouse, either from an individual donor animal or from a batch 
of donor animals, shall be collected in a slaughterhouse approved in accordance with Article 148 of Regulation (EU) 
2017/625.
Those potential donor animals must have undergone ante-mortem and post-mortem inspections carried out by a veterinarian 
at the slaughterhouse who must have certified them to be free of symptoms and signs of any of the category A, B, C and 
D diseases relevant for the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine or equine animals.
The slaughterhouse must be situated in an area where foot-and-mouth disease has not been reported within a 10-km 
radius for a period of at least the preceding 30 days before the date of collection of the ovaries and other tissues.
2.	 Ovaries shall not be brought into the laboratory of an embryo production team for processing until a post-mortem 
inspection of donor animals is completed with satisfactory results.
If a disease referred to in point 1 is found in the individual donor animal, the batch of donor animals or in any animals 
slaughtered in that slaughterhouse on that day, all ovaries and other tissues from those donor animals shall be traced 
and discarded.
3.	 Equipment for the removal and transport of ovaries and other tissues shall be cleansed and either disinfected or sterilised 
before use, except for new single-use equipment, and exclusively used for those purposes.
Separate equipment shall be used to handle oocytes and embryos from different individual donor animals and from 
different batches of donor animals.
PART 4
ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROCESSING OF IN VITRO PRODUCED EMBRYOS OF BOVINE, 
PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND EQUINE ANIMALS
In addition to the requirements set out in Part 2, the following additional requirements shall apply to the processing of in vitro 
produced embryos:
1.	 After the in vitro culture period is completed, but prior to the freezing, storage and transport of the embryos, they shall 
be washed and undergo the treatments referred to in points 7, 10 and 11 of Part 2.
2.	 Embryos from different individual donor animals or from different batches of donor animals, referred to in point 1 of 
Part 3, shall not be washed together.
3.	 Embryos from different individual donor animals or from different batches of donor animals shall not be placed in the 
same straw or other package.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/60
EN
3.6.2020
PART 5
ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROCESSING OF MICROMANIPULATED EMBRYOS OF BOVINE, 
PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND EQUINE ANIMALS
Prior to any micromanipulation which compromises the integrity of the zona pellucida or, in the case of equine embryos, the 
embryonic capsule, all embryos or oocytes shall be collected and processed in accordance with the animal health requirements 
set out in Parts 2, 3 and 4.
In addition, the following requirements shall apply:
1.	 Where micromanipulation of the embryo which involves penetration of the zona pellucida or, in the case of equine 
embryos, the embryonic capsule, this shall be carried out in a laboratory referred to in point 2(a) of Part 3 of Annex I, 
which is under the responsibility of the team veterinarian.
2.	 Each embryo production team shall keep records of its activities in accordance with Article 8(1)(b).
In the case of embryos produced by in vitro fertilisation, the identification of the embryos may be done on the basis of a 
batch of donor animals, but shall contain details of the date and place of collection of ovaries and oocytes. It shall also 
allow the establishment of origin of the donor animals to be traced.
3.	 Any micromanipulation which involves penetration of the zona pellucida or, in the case of equine embryos, the embryonic 
capsule, shall be carried out in the facilities approved for that purpose, and after the last wash and examination.
Such micromanipulation may only be carried out on an embryo with an intact zona pellucida or, in the case of equine 
embryos, an intact embryonic capsule.
PART 6
ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR THE STORAGE OF IN VIVO DERIVED AND IN VITRO PRODUCED 
EMBRYOS, AND OF OOCYTES OF BOVINE, PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE AND EQUINE ANIMALS
1.	 Each embryo collection team and embryo production team shall ensure that the embryos and oocytes are stored at 
suitable temperatures in storage premises referred to in point 2(b) of Part 2 of Annex I.
2.	 Only embryos collected by an embryo collection team, or oocytes collected by and embryos produced by an embryo 
production team, and transported in conditions ensuring that cross-contamination of embryos and oocytes is prevented, 
as they have had no contact with embryos and oocytes which do not comply with the requirements laid down in this 
Regulation, may be brought into the storage premises referred to in point 2(b) of Part 2 of Annex I.
In vivo derived embryos, in vitro produced embryos and oocytes shall be stored in distinct storage containers assigned 
for each type of germinal product and the handling of stored germinal products of different types and species must be 
carried out by separate staff or at a different time.
3.	 The team veterinarian may decide that embryos not collected by an embryo collection team, or oocytes not collected and 
embryos not produced by an embryo production team, may be processed by the embryo collection team or the embryo 
production team provided that:
(a)	 such oocytes and embryos are collected from animals which fulfil the conditions laid down:
	 (i)	 in respect of bovine animals, in point 1 of Chapter II of Part 1 of Annex II and as applicable in Chapters I, II 
and III of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(ii)	 in respect of porcine animals, in points 1, 2 and 3 of Chapter II of Part 2 of Annex II and as applicable in 
Chapters I and IV of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(iii)	 in respect of ovine and caprine animals, in point 1 of Chapter II of Part 3 of Annex II and as applicable in 
Chapters I to III of Part 5 of Annex II;
	(iv)	 in respect of equine animals, in points 1 and 2 of Chapter II of Part 4 of Annex II;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/61
EN
(b)	 processing is carried out with separate equipment or at a different time from oocytes and embryos intended to be 
moved to another Member State, the equipment in the latter case being cleaned and sterilised after use;
(c)	 such oocytes and embryos shall not be moved to another Member State and shall not at any time come into contact 
with, or be stored with, oocytes and embryos intended to be moved to another Member State;
(d)	 such oocytes and embryos must be identifiable by a marking which is different from that referred to in point 1(a)(v) 
of Part 1 of Annex I.
4.	 Frozen embryos or oocytes shall, prior to dispatch to another Member State, be stored in storage premises referred to in 
point 2(b) of Part 2 of Annex I for a period of at least 30 days from the date of their collection or production.
5.	 Only embryos or oocytes from an individual donor animal or from one batch of donor animals, referred to in point 1 
of Part 3, shall be placed in the same straw or another package.

Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/62
EN
3.6.2020
ANNEX IV
INFORMATION TO BE CONTAINED IN THE ANIMAL HEALTH CERTIFICATE FOR GERMINAL PRODUCTS 
MOVED BETWEEN MEMBER STATES AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLES 31 AND 40
1.	 The animal health certificate for germinal products of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals moved between 
Member States, referred to in Article 31, shall contain at least the following information:
(a)	 the name and address of the consignor and the consignee;
(b)	 the name and address of the establishment of dispatch, and
	(i)	 the unique approval number of that establishment, where the establishment of dispatch is an approved germinal 
product establishment or a confined establishment, referred to in Article 14;
	or
	(ii)	 the unique registration number of that establishment, where the establishment of dispatch is an establishment 
where ovine and caprine animals are kept, referred to in Article 13;
(c)	 the name and address of the establishment of destination, and
	(i)	 the unique approval number of that establishment, where the establishment of destination is an approved 
germinal product establishment or a confined establishment;
	or
	(ii)	 the unique registration number of that establishment, where the establishment of destination is a registered 
germinal product establishment or any other registered establishment;
(d)	 the type of germinal products and the species of donor animals;
(e)	 the number of straws or other packages to be dispatched;
(f)	 the information allowing identification of germinal products:
	 (i)	 the species, breed and identification of the donor animals in accordance with the requirements laid down in 
Title I, II, III or IV of Part III of Regulation (EU) 2019/2035 from which germinal products were collected;
	(ii)	 the marking applied to the straws or other packages in accordance with the requirements provided for in 
Article 10;
	(iii)	 the place and date of their collection or production;
(g)	 the number on the seal applied to the transport container;
(h)	 the information on the animal health situation, additional guarantees and, where necessary, test results in relation 
to:
	 (i)	 the Member State or zone thereof;
	(ii)	 the establishment of origin of the donor animals;
	(iii)	 the germinal product establishment or, in the case provided for in Article 14, the confined establishment of 
germinal products collection or production, processing and storage;
	(iv)	 the donor animals from which germinal products were collected;
	(v)	 the germinal products to be dispatched;
(i)	
the date and place of issue of the animal health certificate, the name, capacity and signature of the official veterinarian, 
and the stamp of the competent authority of the place of origin of the consignment.
2.	 The animal health certificate for the germinal products of dogs and cats, and of terrestrial animals other than bovine, 
porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept at confined establishments and of animals of the families Camelidae and 
Cervidae moved between Member States, referred to in Article 40, shall contain at least the following information:
(a)	 the name and address of the consignor and the consignee;

3.6.2020
Official Journal of the European Union
L  174/63
EN
(b)	 the name and address of the establishment of dispatch, and
	(i)	 the unique registration number, where the establishment of dispatch was assigned with such registration number;
	or
	(ii)	 the unique approval number of that confined establishment, where the establishment of dispatch is a confined 
establishment;
(c)	 the name and address of the establishment of destination and, where the establishment of destination is a confined 
establishment, the unique approval number of that confined establishment;
(d)	 the type of germinal products and the species of donor animals;
(e)	 the number of straws or other packages to be dispatched;
(f)	 the information allowing identification of germinal products:
	 (i)	 the species, where necessary the subspecies, and identification of the donor animals from which germinal 
products were collected,
—	 in the case of dogs and cats, in accordance with Article 17(1) of Regulation (EU) No 576/2013 or Article 70 
of Regulation (EU) 2019/2035,
or
—	 in the case of terrestrial animals other than bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals kept at 
confined establishments, in accordance with the rules of that confined establishment,
or
—	 in the case of animals of the families Camelidae and Cervidae, in accordance with Article 73(1) or (2) or 
Article 74 of Regulation (EU) 2019/2035;
	(ii)	 the marking applied to the straws or other packages in accordance with Article 11;
	(iii)	 the place and date of their collection or production;
(g)	 the number on the seal applied to the transport container;
(h)	 the information on the animal health situation, additional guarantees and, where necessary, test results in relation 
to:
	 (i)	 the Member State or zone thereof;
	(ii)	 the establishment of origin of the donor animals;
	(iii)	 the donor animals from which germinal products were collected;
	(iv)	 the germinal products to be dispatched;
(i)	
the date and place of issue of the animal health certificate, the name, capacity and signature of the official veterinarian, 
and the stamp of the competent authority of the place of origin of the consignment.