II
(Non-legislative acts)
REGULATIONS
COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2023/265 
of 9 February 2023
imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of ceramic tiles originating in India and Türkiye 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection 
against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1) (‘the basic Regulation’), and in particular 
Article 9 thereof,
Whereas:
1. PROCEDURE
1.1. Initiation
(1)
On 13 December 2021, the European Commission (‘the Commission’) initiated an anti-dumping investigation with 
regard to imports of ceramic tiles originating in India and Türkiye (‘the countries concerned’) on the basis of 
Article 5 of the basic Regulation. It published a Notice of Initiation in the Official Journal of the European Union (2)
(‘the Notice of Initiation’).
(2)
The Commission initiated the investigation following a complaint lodged on 3 November 2021 by the European 
Ceramic Tile Manufacturers’ Association (‘CET’ or ‘the complainant’). The complaint was made on behalf of the 
Union industry of ceramic tiles in the sense of Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation. The complaint contained 
evidence of dumping and of resulting material injury that was sufficient to justify the initiation of the investigation.
1.2. Interested parties
(3)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission invited interested parties to contact it in order to participate in the 
investigation. In addition, the Commission specifically informed the complainant, other known Union producers, 
the known exporting producers and the India’s and Türkiye’s authorities, known importers, suppliers and users, 
traders, as well as associations known to be concerned about the initiation of the investigation and invited them to 
participate.
(4)
Interested parties had an opportunity to comment on the initiation of the investigation and to request a hearing with 
the Commission and/or the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings. The Commission held hearings with an exporting 
producer from Türkiye and its related companies, the Government of Türkiye (‘GoT’) and the Cement, Glass, Ceramic 
and Soil Products Exporters Association from Türkiye (‘CGCSA’).
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21.
(2) Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of ceramic tiles originating in India and Türkiye. OJ C 501, 
13.12.2021, p. 25.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/1  

1.3. Comments on the initiation of the investigation
(5)
The GoT, the Bien & Qua Group, CGCSA, Morbi Ceramic Association, Indian Council of Ceramic Tiles and 
Sanitaryware (‘Indian Council and Association’), and a number of Indian producers/exporters provided comments 
on the complaint and the initiation of the investigation. The complainant also submitted comments rebutting the 
interested parties’ submissions.
(6)
At the outset, the Commission noted that it carried out its examination of the complaint in accordance with 
Article 5 of the basic Regulation and came to the conclusion that the requirements for initiation of an investigation 
were met, i.e. that there was sufficient evidence to initiate the investigation.
(7)
According to Article 5(2) of the basic Regulation, a complaint shall contain such information as is reasonably 
available to the complainant. The legal standard of evidence required for the purpose of initiating an investigation 
(‘sufficient’ evidence) is different from that which is necessary for the purpose of a preliminary or final 
determination of the existence of dumping, injury or of a causal link. Therefore, evidence which is insufficient in 
quantity or quality to justify a preliminary or final determination of dumping, injury or causation, may nevertheless 
be sufficient to justify the initiation of an investigation (3).
(8)
The GoT, Indian exporting producers, the Bien & Qua Group, Indian Council and Association and CGCSA took issue 
with the Commission’s analysis of the degree of support for the complaint (‘standing analysis’).
(9)
These parties remarked that only a “small portion” of domestic producers supported the complaint, namely 25,8 % 
of the total ceramic tiles production in the Union in 2020 according to the complaint.
(10)
These parties also claimed that such percentage could not be considered a major proportion of the domestic 
industry according to Article 4 of the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade 1994 (‘WTO ADA’), and that it was doubtful that the complaint was made by or on behalf of 
domestic producers fulfilling the 25 % threshold set in Article 5(4) of WTO ADA. They also remarked that some 
ceramic tiles producers in the Union were not even listed in Annex 4 of the complaint as Union producers and 
requested that the Commission disclosed its standing analysis and methodology, or that the complainant did not 
provide evidence that the decision to lodge the complaint was supported by all its members.
(11)
All claims on standing were dismissed. The Commission carried out its own standing analysis. It contacted all know 
producers of ceramic tiles in the Union before initiation and asked them to express their position regarding the 
initiation of the investigation and report their production for the investigation period (1 July 2020 to 30 June 
2021). Over 30 % of the total EU production expressed support and no producer expressed opposition or a neutral 
position regarding the initiation of the investigation. Therefore, the relevant thresholds as set out in Article 5(4) of 
the basic Regulation were met. The result, the companies contacted, the non-confidential replies, and the 
methodology, were made available in the non-confidential file of the investigation (‘note for the file on standing’).
(12)
Article 5(2)(a) of the basic Regulation requires that the complaint contains a list of all domestic producers known to 
the complainant; this is not necessarily all producers. The standing analysis was carried out on the basis of the 
producers known at the time, as explained in recital (11). This list of domestic producers might not have been 
complete; however, no other Union producers came forward following the initiation of the investigation that would 
have made the assessment of representativeness of the complaint invalid.
(13)
Interested parties provided no evidence why the complaint, notably the injury indicators based on the companies 
that provided data for the complaint, would result in a distorted analysis that would not be representative of the 
Union industry as a whole. They merely remark that 25,8 % of domestic producers supporting the complaint is 
“very low” and “uncommon”.
(3) Judgment of the General Court of 11 July 2017, Viraj Profiles Ltd v Council of the European Union, Case T-67/14, ECLI:EU: 
T:2017:481, para. 98.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/2 
10.2.2023  

(14)
Regarding the definition of the Union industry, interested parties were mixing Article 4 of the basic Regulation 
regarding the definition of the Union industry and Article 5 of the basic Regulation that sets the rules for the 
initiation of proceedings. The threshold of 25 % of production required for initiation does not necessarily address 
the standard of “major proportion” (4).
(15)
Indian exporting producers claimed that, when establishing production in the Union for year 2020, the complainant 
unreasonably set aside PRODCOM production figures on frivolous grounds.
(16)
The Commission disagreed. Interested parties did not provide any evidence of why the data reported to the 
complainant by its members (national associations of producers) would be deficient, other than stating that no 
methodology was provided, and that the CET data were neither audited nor verified by any government or agency. 
The complainant in fact crosschecked PRODCOM figures against data gathered directly from the national 
associations, and duly explained why it considered the latter more reliable. The Commission considered the 
argumentation in the complaint to be reasonable.
(17)
Indian exporting producers and the Bien & Qua Group claimed that the companies that decided not to cooperate in 
the investigation as sampled companies did therefore not provide support to the complaint. The Commission should 
therefore assess the level of support taking away the production of these companies.
(18)
The claim was dismissed. The support for the complaint at pre-initiation stage, as well as the standing analysis, are 
governed by Article 5 of the basic Regulation, and relate to the initiation of proceedings. Sampling, on the other 
hand, is based on Article 17 of the basic Regulation and relates to the investigation. The fact that a company that 
supports the initiation of the investigation later decides to withdraw from the sample chosen by the Commission 
has no impact on the standing analysis. These companies are still Union producers that supported the initiation of 
the investigation.
(19)
The GoT, Indian exporting producers, Indian Council and Association challenged the Commission’s granting of 
anonymity to some Union producers on various grounds. These parties claimed that to make allegations about 
injury, the identity of the complainants had to be disclosed, as injury claims could not be assessed without this 
knowledge. They also claimed that the anonymity was a deliberate attempt by the complainant to avoid legitimate 
protests from the Union user industry. Further, they claimed a breach of rights of defence as, without knowing the 
identities, the Union producers’ data could not be crosschecked with public sources.
(20)
The Commission disagreed. The granting of confidential treatment of identity did not affect the possibility of 
interested parties to assess the injury alleged in the complaint. Indeed, the complaint contained all the necessary 
injury indicators as well as an explanation of its sources, including the number of companies that provided relevant 
indicators. Interested parties had the opportunity to provide, and in fact provided, comments on the injury 
assessment of the complaint. The Commission also noted that anonymity was granted only to those companies that 
showed a good cause and substantiated the risk of retaliation, as explained in the note on the file on standing.
(21)
Regarding standing, as explained in recital (11), the result was available on the non-confidential file, and it included 
the non-confidential replies of all companies that participated. These replies, although anonymous, still contained 
the data necessary to allow other interested parties to assess the Commission’s analysis, namely data per company 
on production and sales, among other factors.
(4) European Communities – definitive anti-dumping measures on certain iron or steel fasteners from China, Report of the Appellate Body 
(WT/DS397/AB/R), para 418. See also Judgment of 8 September 2015, Philips Lighting, C-511/13 P, ECLI:EU:C:2015:553, paras. 60 - 
73.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/3  

(22)
The allegation that this was a deliberate attempt to avoid legitimate protests from the user industry was without 
grounds. The reason behind the granting of anonymity was the risk of retaliation. This did not in any way prevent 
users from providing their views. The Commission contacted all known users upon initiation and invited them to 
cooperate in the investigation and make submissions in the framework of the assessment of Union interest (5). 
Those that registered as interested parties had access to the non-confidential version of the complaint and were 
granted the opportunity to provide comments on the complaint and initiation (6).
(23)
The GoT, the Bien & Qua Group and CGCSA challenged the period used in the complaint (1 January 2017 to 
31 December 2020) as it was not as close as possible to the date of initiation and was different from the 
investigation period chosen by the Commission. The GoT referred to the final report of the panel in the WTO 
dispute settlement case Mexico – Steel Pipes and Tubes (7) in this regard.
(24)
The Commission noted that there was no legal requirement in the basic Regulation regarding the period chosen by 
the complainants, nor any that the period chosen for the investigation had to be the same as the one chosen by the 
complainants. The Commission can however, as it did in this case, choose a more recent period, normally covering 
a period of no less than six months immediately prior to the initiation of proceedings for the purpose of a 
representative finding as required by Article 6 of the basic Regulation. This did not mean that the period chosen by 
the complainants was not valid for the purpose of the complaint. Further, interested parties did not provide any 
evidence to the contrary.
(25)
Finally, the WTO panel cited by the GoT does not apply to the period chosen by the complainant as the matter at 
issue in that dispute was the choice of the investigation period by the investigating authority, which in that case 
coincided with the period in the complaint. Moreover, the contentious point as quoted by the GoT was a gap of 
eight months between the investigation period chosen by the investigating authority and the initiation of the 
proceeding. In this case, the gap was less than six months.
(26)
The GoT remarked that the constructed normal value used in the dumping calculations by the complainant for 
Türkiye was overly inflated due to the source used in the complaint for the calculation of salaries in Türkiye. It also 
remarked that under Annex 10 of the complaint, in the document titled “Dumping calculation for Türkiye – 
Methodology and SG&A” in Step 5 of dumping calculation, Indian EXW and CIF export prices were mentioned in 
the title and text. It requested the Commission to clarify whether this was a typo or whether Indian EXW and CIF 
prices were used for Turkish exports in order to calculate the dumping.
(27)
The figures on which the normal value was based were supported by sufficient evidence as confirmed by the 
Commission services’ analysis. As pointed out in recital (7), the figures used by the complainant were those 
reasonably available to it. The Commission confirmed that the mention to Indian EXW and CIF export prices was a 
typo and that Turkish EXW and CIF prices were used for Turkish exports in order to calculate dumping.
(28)
Indian exporting producers submitted that the complaint included no evidence of dumping regarding India because 
the complainant constructed normal value. According to them, Article 5.2 of WTO ADA required the applicant to 
provide such information as was reasonably available to it on the prices at which the product in question was sold 
when destined for consumption in the domestic market of the subject countries.
(5) Notice of initiation, section 5.5.
(6) Notice of initiation, section 5.2.
(7) Mexico - Anti-dumping Duties on Steel Pipes and Tubes from Guatemala - Final Report of the Panel (WT/DS331/R), paras. 
7.234-7.236.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/4 
10.2.2023  

(29)
The claim was dismissed. As set out in the complaint, the complainant first attempted to obtain domestic prices in 
India. It asked all its member associations to collect domestic invoices, quotes or price lists referring to year 2020. 
One of the national manufacturers’ associations specifically commissioned a report for that purpose, and provided 
the report to the complainant. This report included domestic Indian invoices for only two months of the 
investigation period used in the complaint. The complainant therefore recurred to constructing the normal value. 
Article 5.2 of WTO ADA, and Article 5(2)(c) of the basic Regulation, clearly state that the normal value can be 
based on the constructed value of the product.
(30)
Indian exporting producers submitted that the complaint had an excessive use of confidentiality and that this 
precluded them from assessing important elements and adequately addressing the claims in the complaint.
(31)
The Commission disagreed. It considered that the version open for inspection by interested parties of the complaint 
contained all the essential evidence and non-confidential summaries of data provided confidentially, in order for 
interested parties to exercise their rights of defence throughout the proceeding.
(32)
Article 19 of the basic Regulation allows for the safeguarding of confidential information in circumstances where 
disclosure would be of significant competitive advantage to a competitor or would have a significantly adverse 
effect upon a person supplying the information or upon a person from whom that person acquired the 
information. The Commission assessed the information provided in the sensitive annexes to the complaint and 
considered that it fell under those categories.
(33)
In any event, the Commission noted that Indian exporting producers simply flagged the parts of the complaint 
labelled as “sensitive” as problematic, without explaining why. For each and every part flagged, the complainant 
provided a meaningful summary of the information contained in the sensitive annexes of the complaint so that 
interested parties could have a “reasonable understanding of the substance of the information submitted in 
confidence” as set forth by Article 19(2) of the basic Regulation.
(34)
For example, it was clear from the non-confidential version of the complaint that it was lodged on behalf of 29 
Union producers of ceramic tiles, what the size of these Union producers was, and that two additional Union 
producers officially supported the complaint. Non-confidential annexes 7, 8 and 9 included the lists of Indian and 
Turkish producers. Non-confidential annex 10 contained a comprehensive explanation of the constructed normal 
value and the dumping margin for India. Non-confidential annex 11 contained the data on the trade flows analysis. 
Non-confidential annex 12, as well as the non-confidential body of the complaint, contained all injury indicators 
(aggregated). Undercutting and underselling calculations, including the prices and methodology used, were 
explained in the body of the complaint. Non-confidential annexes 22 and 23 both explained what information was 
submitted in confidence and contained a summary of that information.
(35)
The Bien & Qua Group and CGCSA challenged the complaint’s cumulation of Turkish and Indian imports. They 
based this challenge on the different import prices between both countries and between Türkiye and the Union 
prices, the different imports trends, the geographical distribution of imports, alleged product differences, and the 
EU-Türkiye Association Agreement.
(36)
The Commission disagreed. At the outset, and as the complainant argued in its submission on initiation, the 
EU-Türkiye Association Agreement was immaterial for the purpose of the analysis under Article 3(4) of the basic 
Regulation.
(37)
On the other reasons raised by interested parties, the Commission found that the conditions for cumulation of the 
countries concerned under Article 3(4) of the basic Regulation were met at the stage of the complaint on the basis 
of the available information and statistics. The dumping margins were found to be above de minimis. As shown by 
available official import statistics, dumped imports were above de minimis for all countries concerned.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/5  

(38)
Furthermore, the conditions of competition were considered similar, as
— There was overlap in terms of geographical presence among the products from the countries concerned and the 
Union industry’s, as also argued by the complainant in its submission. Moreover, the Union is one single market 
and the fact that imports from India and Türkiye were more predominant in some Member States than others did 
not imply that these products were not competing in the same market, among themselves and with domestic 
Union production;
— Prices from both India and Türkiye were below Union industry price and full cost levels. The different trends of 
imports and the difference between Türkiye and Indian prices were not a reason for decumulation. As stated 
above, both countries imports are above de minimis and the complainant provided evidence of dumping for both;
— There was a significant market presence of imports from both countries concerned, whether in absolute or 
relative terms, during the period examined.
— The complaint provided sufficient evidence that Turkish and Indian products were very similar within a wide 
range of product types, from small to large tiles to large slabs, porcelain and non-porcelain.
(39)
The GoT, Indian exporting producers, the Bien & Qua Group and CGCSA submitted that some injury indicators as 
analysed in the complaint (for example production capacity, sales volume in the Union market, sales prices in the 
Union market, employment and stocks) developed positively over the period examined, and this clearly showed that 
the complainants were not injured. The GoT also claimed that the injury differed depending on the group (large, 
medium-sized and small Union companies) and that the Commission should analyse injury as a whole.
(40)
As a preliminary comment, at complaint stage, the assessment of sufficiency of evidence of injury requires an 
examination, inter alia, of the relevant factors as described in Article 5(2)(d) of the basic Regulation. Article 5(2) of 
the basic Regulation does not require that all injury factors mentioned in Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation show 
deterioration in order for material injury to be established. Indeed, the wording of Article 5(2) of the basic 
Regulation states that the complaint shall contain the information on changes in the volume of the allegedly 
dumped imports, the effect of those imports on prices of the like product on the Union market and the consequent 
impact of the imports on the Union industry, as demonstrated by relevant (not necessarily all) factors and indices 
having a bearing on the state of the Union industry, such as those listed in Articles 3(3) and 3(5) of the basic 
Regulation. Therefore, not all factors must show deterioration in order for sufficient evidence of injury to be 
established, nor did the complaint need to necessarily examine all of them.
(41)
Regarding injury, the specific analysis of the complaint showed that there was sufficient evidence pointing to 
increased penetration of the Union market (both in absolute and relative terms) by imports of ceramic tiles from 
India and Türkiye.
(42)
Specifically, according to evidence provided in the complaint, from 2017 to 2020, imports in volumes from Türkiye 
increased by 48 % (from 32 million m2 in 2017 to 46 million m2 in the IP), resulting in a market share of 5,7 % 
in 2020 (from 4,1 % in 2017). Turkish prices decreased on average by 3 % in this period. During the same period, 
imports from India tripled in volume (from approximately 8 million m2 to more than 25 million m2), resulting in a 
market share of 3,1 % in 2020 (from slightly over 1 % in 2017). Also according to the evidence provided in the 
complaint, these imports were made at dumped prices which substantially undercut the Union industry’s prices. 
This appeared to have had a materially injurious impact upon the state of the Union industry, shown for example 
by decreases in market share or by a deterioration of financial results.
(43)
The GoT argued that the split of the Union industry into three different groups according to production per company 
was a deliberate attempt on the part of the complainant to underline the alleged injury for the small group of the 
complainants.
(44)
The Commission disagreed. The complaint included the micro-economic injury indicators for all three groups 
separately and for the three of them together, and the macro-economic injury indicators for the whole Union 
industry. Therefore, the complaint contained sufficient evidence of injury to the whole Union industry and allowed 
a more detailed analysis as the trends were not the same for the three groups.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/6 
10.2.2023  

(45)
The GoT, Indian exporting producers, Indian Council and Association, CGCSA, the Bien & Qua Group claimed that 
the complaint did not contain sufficient evidence of a causal link between the allegedly dumped imports and the 
claimed injury to the Union industry. These parties claimed that the alleged injury had other causes, such as the 
Covid-19 pandemic, increases in the Union industry’s costs or its poor export performance.
(46)
The Commission disagreed. In section 6, the complaint analysed other known factors that may have had an impact 
on the performance of the Union industry, including its export performance, its rising costs, the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, or imports from countries other than India and Türkiye.
(47)
Concretely, the complaint acknowledged that the exports of the companies that provided data for the complaint 
decreased but they still represented 24 % of their total sales. It also stated that the outbreak of the Covid-19 
pandemic affected the Union tiles industry. Factories were closed for several months in some Member States, i.e. 
Italy, Spain, due to strict sanitary measures and these lockdowns affected largely the production but the industry 
could maintain their volume of sales by selling from stocks. Regarding imports from other third countries, no third 
country other than the countries concerned achieved a market share above the de minimis level of 1 %. Regarding 
costs, the complaint also acknowledged the increase, but provided evidence that unit prices increased less than the 
cost of production, and this was due to the increased penetration of imports from India and Türkiye at dumped 
prices that undercut the prices of the Union industry.
(48)
In the Commission’s view, none of these factors, as analysed in the complaint, disproved the conclusion that there 
was sufficient evidence for the initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding with regard to the point that dumped 
imports had a materially injurious impact on the state of the Union industry, as explained in recital (42).
(49)
CGCSA and the Bien & Qua Group submitted that the threat of injury analysis provided in the complaint did not 
meet the relevant legal standard by covering only up to the second quarter of 2021.
(50)
These comments were irrelevant regarding the Commission’s analysis of the complaint and the initiation of the case. 
As summarised in section 4 of the Notice of Initiation, there was sufficient evidence that the complaint met the 
requirements for initiation on the basis of material injury. Concretely, the complainant provided sufficient evidence 
that imports of the product under investigation from the countries concerned increased overall in absolute terms 
and in terms of market share, and that such increase and the price levels of imports had a negative impact on the 
level of prices charged and on the market share held by the Union industry, resulting in substantial adverse effects 
on the overall performance of the Union industry.
(51)
On the basis of the above, the Commission confirmed that the relevant thresholds for the initiation of the 
investigation as set out in Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation were met, and that the complainant provided 
sufficient evidence of dumping, injury and a causal link, thereby satisfying the requirements set out in Article 5.2 of 
WTO ADA and Article 5(2) of the basic Regulation. Therefore, the complaint met the requirements for initiation.
(52)
Following final disclosure, a number of interested parties reiterated some of their comments made at the initiation of 
the investigation.
(53)
The GoT, CGCSA, Sogutsen Seramik from Türkiye and sixteen Indian exporting producers reiterated their claims 
concerning standing made after initiation. In particular, they recalled that the two Union producers, which were 
replaced in the sample when they informed the Commission that they would not be able to fill in the questionnaire, 
should not be considered as supporting the initiation. Furthermore, they repeatedly submitted that the support to 
initiation of the proceeding was too low and could not be considered a major proportion of the domestic industry 
according to Article 4 of WTO ADA.
(54)
Claims concerning standing were addressed in recitals (11) to (16) and (18). Since the parties did not bring forward 
any new arguments, the Commission confirmed their rejection.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/7  

(55)
Sixteen Indian exporting producers and the Turkish company Sogutsen Seramik reiterated that their rights of 
defence were breached by granting anonymity to some Union producers.
(56)
Claims concerning the anonymity of certain Union producers and the alleged breach of rights of defence were 
addressed in recitals (20) to (22). The Commission confirmed the rejection of these claims.
1.4. Sampling
(57)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it might sample the interested parties in accordance with 
Article 17 of the basic Regulation.
1.4.1. Sampling of Union producers
(58)
In its Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it had provisionally selected a sample of six Union producers. 
The Commission selected the sample on the basis of the largest representative volume of sales and production, 
taking into account geographical spread and also the high fragmentation of the ceramic tiles industry in line with 
the methodology detailed in recitals (59) to (63).
(59)
In previous investigations concerning dumped imports of ceramic tiles (8), the Commission concluded that the 
ceramic tiles industry is significantly fragmented. Therefore, to ensure that the results of large companies did not 
dominate the injury analysis and that the situation of small and medium-sized producers, which collectively 
account for a significant share of the Union production, was adequately reflected, the Commission decided to 
establish three producer categories based on the annual production quantity:
— Category 1: large producers – annual production over 10 million m2,
— Category 2: medium-sized producers – annual production between 5 and 10 million m2,
— Category 3: small producers – annual production below 5 million m2.
(60)
Although the present investigation revealed a shift towards large producers, the Union industry remained highly 
fragmented with small and medium-sized producers accounting for approximately half of the Union production in 
the investigation period. Accordingly, the Commission considered that the fragmentation of the Union industry 
should also be taken into consideration in this investigation. It, therefore, decided to apply the same methodology 
for the selection of the sample as in the previous investigations and considered that all categories of producers 
should be represented in the sample.
(61)
The provisional sample consisted of six Union producers. The sampled Union producers accounted for 6 % of total 
estimated Union production and 8 % of total Union industry’s sales in the investigation period. Companies from all 
three categories were represented: one large producer, two medium-sized producers and three small producers.
(62)
To reflect different situations that could be encountered in the Union in the different Member States, when selecting 
the sample, the Commission also took into account the geographical spread as mentioned in recital (58). The 
sampled producers were situated in Italy, Poland, Spain and a central European country. The sample thus covered 
Member States where approximately 90 % of the production was situated.
(63)
Consequently, the Commission considered that the methodology applied ensured the sample was representative of 
the Union production as a whole and thus complied with Article 17(1) of the basic Regulation.
(8) Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 917/2011 of 12 September 2011 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting 
definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of ceramic tiles originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 238, 
15.9.2011, p. 1) and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2179 of 22 November 2017 imposing a definitive anti- 
dumping duty on imports of ceramic tiles originating in the People's Republic of China following an expiry review pursuant to Article 
11(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 307, 23.11.2017, p. 25).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/8 
10.2.2023  

(64)
The Commission invited interested parties to comment on the provisional sample. No comments were received 
within the deadline and the provisional sample was therefore confirmed. The sample was considered representative 
of the Union industry.
(65)
Following the confirmation of the sample, one small producer from Italy included in the sample informed the 
Commission that it was not in a position to provide a questionnaire reply. Subsequently, the Commission replaced 
this company by another small producer from Italy and informed the interested parties of the revision to the 
definitive sample.
(66)
After the first revision of the definitive sample, the newly added company informed the Commission that it was not 
able to submit a questionnaire reply either. The Commission revised the definitive sample again and replaced the 
company with another small producer from Italy. The second revision of the definitive sample was disclosed to the 
interested parties.
(67)
The definitive sample after the second revision represented 6 % of total estimated Union production and 8 % of total 
Union industry’s sales in the investigation period and covered four Member States where approximately 90 % of the 
Union production was located. The Commission considered that the definitive sample was representative in terms of 
total Union production and sales, geographical spread and it took into account the fragmentation of the Union 
industry.
(68)
Following final disclosure, the GoT, CGCSA and four Turkish companies (EGE Seramik, Kale Seramik, Sogutsen 
Seramik, and Yurtbay Seramik) made comments concerning the sample of Union producers. In particular, they 
claimed that a sample representing 6 % of Union production was not sufficiently representative. The GoT and 
Yurtbay Seramik claimed that the Commission should have examined all 29 companies that provided information 
for the complaint. The GoT and CGCSA accused the Commission of manipulating the selection of the sample by 
selecting either companies with financial difficulties or companies that produced high-end ceramic tiles, e.g. 
artisanal or designer products.
(69)
The GoT furthermore submitted that the Commission failed to explain the composition of the sample, i.e. the 
number of companies selected in each producer category.
(70)
First, the Commission noted that none of the parties mentioned in recital (68) commented on the sample of the 
Union producers within the applicable deadline.
(71)
Further, the Commission was neither obliged nor able to sample all Union producers that provided information for 
the complaint or expressed support for the initiation of the investigation for that matter. The Commission selected 
a representative sample of Union producers “which can reasonably be investigated within the time available”, in 
accordance with Article 17 of the basic Regulation. To increase the representativeness of the sample, the 
Commission sampled double the number of Union producers than it usually samples. To reflect the fragmentation 
of the Union industry, where small and medium-sized producers accounted for approximately half of the Union 
production in the investigation period, as explained in recital (60), instead of sampling the three largest Union 
producers as per usual practice, the Commission sampled six companies in the three categories discussed in recital 
(59). Had the Commission sampled only the three largest Union producers, such sample would not increase in a 
meaningful way in terms of proportion of the production (from 6 % to 9 % of the Union production) and would 
not reflect the “largest representative volume of production” as it would not take into consideration the fragmentation 
of the Union industry.
(72)
The Commission sampled a number of Union producers that could reasonably be investigated in the time available. 
The Commission chose the largest producers in each producer category while also taking into account the 
geographical spread. The number of Union producers in each category reflected the structure of the Union industry 
known to the Commission at the moment of initiation.
(73)
Finally, the Commission disagreed with the assertion by the GoT and CGCSA of having manipulated the sample in 
favour of companies with higher costs and prices or companies in financial difficulties. The selection of the sample 
was based on objective criteria and information available to the Commission at initiation. Interested parties had 
opportunity to comment on the selection of the sample but no comments were received within the deadline. The 
Commission recalled that the parties’ subsequent allegations were not supported by any evidence.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/9  

(74)
Consequently, all claims concerning the sampling of Union producers were rejected.
1.4.2. Sampling of importers
(75)
To decide whether sampling is necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked unrelated importers to 
provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation.
(76)
Five companies provided the requested information and agreed to be included in the sample. One of the companies, 
OBI Group Holding SE & Co. KGaA, almost exclusively purchased the product under investigation originating in 
India and Türkiye from independent importers acting as wholesalers. Therefore, the Commission considered that 
the company should be investigated as a user.
(77)
In view of the low number of replies from importers, the Commission decided that sampling was not necessary. The 
Commission informed the interested parties of its decision. No comments were received in this respect.
1.4.3. Sampling of exporting producers in India
(78)
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked all exporting 
producers in India to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. In addition, the Commission 
asked the Mission of India to the European Union to identify and/or contact other exporting producers, if any, that 
could be interested in participating in the investigation.
(79)
More than 140 exporting producers in India provided the requested information and agreed to be included in the 
sample. In accordance with Article 17(1) and 17(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission announced, through a 
Note to the open file published on 22 December 2021, the selection of a preliminary sample of three groups of 
exporting producers based on the largest representative volume of exports to the Union which could reasonably be 
investigated within the time available. The authorities of India were also consulted on the preliminary sample 
selection.
(80)
Three parties commented on the preliminary sample. Two of them asked for their inclusion in the sample; however, 
they did not contest that the three preliminarily sampled companies were the largest exporting producers, nor did 
they claim that their inclusion instead of one of those three would improve the representativity of the sample. One 
non-sampled group of exporting producers submitted that the combined volume of Union sales reported in the 
sampling forms individually by the related entities of this group would qualify it for the sample as it would be 
ranked within the top three. The Commission checked the issue and confirmed that indeed it was amongst the three 
largest exporting producers. Consequently, the Commission published, on 3 January 2022, a Note to the open file 
announcing a revised sample of three Indian exporting producers. The revised sample, consisting of the Lavish 
Granito Group, the Icon Granito Group and the Conor Granito Group, accounted for 20 % - 25 % of the sales to the 
European Union in the investigation period in m2 reported by all Indian companies that submitted sampling replies 
and 16.5 % - 20.5 % of m2 of the ceramic tiles imports from India in that period. The sample was therefore 
considered representative.
(81)
Following this Note, the group of exporting producers that had initially been sampled but was excluded from the 
revised sample requested to be re-included in the sample. The submission included revised export figures, which 
showed bigger Union sales volumes than initially reported in the sampling form. The party argued that by including 
them in the sample – either by re-establishing the initial sample or by adding it to the sample as a fourth party – its 
representativeness would improve. The Commission rejected the request. It noted that the revised export figures did 
not have an impact on the representativeness of the sample and that these figures were submitted after the deadline 
to submit sampling information. The Commission also noted that adding a fourth party to the sample could prevent 
completion of the investigation in good time. Consequently, the Commission confirmed the sample in a Note to the 
open file of 12 January 2022.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/10 
10.2.2023  

(82)
Following final disclosure, Biuro Handlowe Netto PLUS Sp. z o.o. Sp. k., Cortina Outlet & Salon Płytek Cezary 
Krzysztof Dąbrowski and Cortina Outlet & Salon Płytek Izabela Awier (‘Netto and Cortina’ or ‘Ceramika Netto’ (9)) 
argued that the Commission should have investigated all exporting producers that came forward. According to the 
company, the technical complexity of the case and complex structures of the cooperating Indian exporting 
producers did not warrant the limitation of the investigation to a sample of companies.
(83)
The Commission disagreed. Given the large number of Indian exporting producers, under Article 17(1) of the basic 
Regulation, the Commission was entitled to use sampling. The Commission selected a representative sample “which 
can reasonably be investigated within the time available”, in accordance with Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
Moreover, Ceramika Netto did not comment on the sample of Indian exporting producers within the applicable 
deadline. Therefore, the Commission rejected the claim.
1.4.4. Sampling of exporting producers in Türkiye
(84)
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked all exporting 
producers in Türkiye to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. In addition, the Commission 
asked the Permanent Representation of Türkiye to the European Union to identify and/or contact other exporting 
producers, if any, that could be interested in participating in the investigation.
(85)
Eighteen (groups of) exporting producers in Türkiye provided the requested information and agreed to be included in 
the sample. In accordance with Article 17(1) and 17(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission announced, 
through a Note to the open file published on 22 December 2021, the selection of a preliminary sample of three 
(groups of) exporting producers on the basis of the largest representative volume of exports to the Union which 
could reasonably be investigated within the time available. The authorities of Türkiye were also consulted on the 
preliminary sample selection.
(86)
The Government of Türkiye, one group of Turkish exporting producers and two associations representing the 
interests of Turkish manufacturers made substantive comments on the preliminary sample. The group of Turkish 
exporting producers proposed weight (instead of m2) as the key to rank companies. The four parties contested the 
sample initially proposed and casted doubts on the data in some sampling forms and the eligibility of some of the 
sampled parties. Therefore, on 3 January 2022, the Commission asked two companies initially ranked within the 
top three for a clarification of data in their sampling forms. One company made a minor revision of the data 
initially submitted but another company made a major revision of those data which resulted in significantly lower 
export volumes. That correction impacted the top-three ranking of company/groups. As a result, the Commission 
published, on 4 January 2022, a Note to the open file announcing a revised sample of three Turkish exporting 
producers. The Commission based the ranking on m2, i.e. the usual reference unit in the ceramic tiles business. The 
revised sample, consisting of Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Vitra Karo Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., and the group 
composed of Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş. and Bien Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş, accounted for 
almost 51 % of the ceramic tiles imports from Türkiye in m2 in the investigation period based on the information 
available at that stage. The revised sample was therefore considered representative.
(87)
The Turkish group that made comments on the initial sample reiterated its requests for a ranking in weight, which 
would result in that group ranking amongst the top three and recalled its willingness to be part of the sample. No 
other comments were received on the revised sample. The Commission found no compelling arguments that would 
justify abandoning the reference unit normally used in the ceramic tiles business. Hence, the Commission confirmed 
the sample in a Note to the open file of 12 January 2022.
1.5. Individual examination
(88)
Four groups of exporting producers in India and five groups of exporting producers in Türkiye requested individual 
examination under Article 17(3) of the basic Regulation by submitting a questionnaire reply within the set deadline 
of 30 days from the notification of the sample. The Commission decided that the examination of those requests 
would have been unduly burdensome and would have prevented the completion of the investigation in good time. 
(9) During the proceeding, the three companies informed the Commisison that they merged into a single company Ceramika Netto Sp. z 
o.o. Sp.K.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/11  

This was due to the number of requests, the complexity of the corporate structure of some requesting parties and the 
size and complexity of the sample of the exporting producers investigated. The individual examination requests were 
thus rejected.
(89)
Well beyond the earlier mentioned deadline, in August 2022, Ceramika Netto, a Polish importer of ceramic tiles 
submitted, as an annex to a written representation, letters of two Indian producers requesting individual 
examination. Such letters, not accompanied by a questionnaire reply, submitted by a third party and six months 
after the deadline for individual examination requests had expired, cannot be considered requests for individual 
examination pursuant to Article 17(3) of the basic Regulation. In any event, would they have been considered, they 
would have been rejected for the same reasons as the properly submitted requests referred to in recital (88).
1.6. Request for confidentiality by the Union producers
(90)
The complainants and supporters of the complaint, represented by CET, requested that their names be kept 
confidential in line with Article 19(1) of the basic Regulation for the fear of retaliation. CET noted that the 
confidentiality treatment granted at pre-initiation stage should be extended to the investigation.
(91)
In this respect, the complainants and supporters submitted that there was a risk of retaliation by their suppliers of 
raw materials located in particular in Türkiye, by their Union customers which relied also on imports from the 
countries concerned, and by their customers in the countries concerned.
(92)
The Commission examined the requests and the supporting evidence submitted by each company individually. In 
addition, the Commission noted that in the investigation concerning imports of ceramic tiles originating in the 
People’s Republic of China (10) and the subsequent expiry review (11), the identity of the Union producers was kept 
confidential.
(93)
The Commission concluded that the risk of retaliation existed with regard to four sampled Union producers. On this 
basis, the Commission granted confidential treatment to the identity of these companies throughout the proceeding.
(94)
On the contrary, the Commission found that the risk of retaliation did not exist with regard to the Spanish producer 
Azteca Products & Services, S.L.U. Consequently, the Commission decided to disclose the name of the company.
(95)
It should be noted that the request for confidentiality by the VIVES Group was found unjustified already at the pre- 
initiation stage (for the composition of the VIVES Group, see recital (101)).
1.7. Questionnaire replies
(96)
The Commission sent a questionnaire requesting the macro-indicators of the Union industry to the complainant and 
requested the six sampled Union producers, the three groups of exporting producers in India and the three groups of 
exporting producers in Türkiye to fill in the relevant questionnaires. Since sampling of unrelated importers was 
abandoned, all unrelated importers and all users were invited to fill in the respective questionnaires.
(97)
The questionnaires for Union producers, unrelated importers, users, exporting producers in India and exporting 
producers in Türkiye were made available online (12) on the day of initiation.
(98)
The Commission received questionnaire replies from the six sampled Union producers, the complainant, three 
importers, one user, the three sampled groups of exporting producers in India and the three sampled groups of 
exporting producers in Türkiye.
(10) Implementing Regulation (EU) No 917/2011 of 12 September.
(11) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2179.
(12) https://tron.trade.ec.europa.eu/investigations/case-view?caseId=2559
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/12 
10.2.2023  

(99)
Following an initial analysis of the questionnaire replies submitted by importers, the Commission enquired about 
their potential relationship with producers in India and Türkiye. One importer confirmed that it was a legally 
recognised partner in business of a ceramic tiles producer in India. Therefore, it could not be considered an 
unrelated importer. Subsequently, the Commission disregarded its questionnaire reply.
1.8. Verification visits
(100) The Commission sought and verified all the information deemed necessary for a provisional determination of 
dumping, resulting injury and Union interest. Verification visits pursuant to Article 16 of the basic Regulation were 
carried out at the premises of the following companies:
Union producers and their related traders, and the complainant
— Four sampled Union producers and, where relevant, their related traders, which were granted confidential 
treatment as explained in section 1.6.
— Azteca Products & Services, S.L.U. and its related trader Kerstone, S.L., both located in Alcora (Castellón), Spain
— The European Ceramic Tile Manufacturers’ Association, Brussels, Belgium
Exporting producers in India
— Icon Granito Limited and related companies, Morbi, India (‘the Icon Group’)
— Conor Granito Limited and related companies, Morbi, India (‘the Conor Group’)
— Lavish Granito Limited and related companies, Morbi, India (‘the Lavish Group’)
Exporting producers in Türkiye (13)
— Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. and related companies, Uşak and Istanbul, Türkiye (‘the Hitit Group’)
— Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş., Bien Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş., and related companies, 
Istanbul, Bilecik and Söke, Türkiye (‘the Bien & Qua Group’)
— Vitra Karo Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. and related companies, Bozüyük and Istanbul, Türkiye (‘the Vitra Group’)
(101) The Commission carried out remote crosschecks (‘RCC’) of the following parties:
Union producers and their related traders
— Ceramica Vives S.A. and Ferraes Ceramica S.A. and their related traders Vives Azulejos y Gres S.A. and Arcana 
Ceramica S.A., all located in Alcora (Castellón), Spain (‘the VIVES Group’)
User
— OBI Group Holding SE & Co. KGaA, Wermelskirchen, Germany
Traders related to exporting producers in Türkiye
— Vitra Fliesen GmbH & Co. KG, Merzig, Germany
— V&B Fliesen GmbH, Merzig, Germany
1.9. Investigation period and period considered
(102) The investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021 (‘the investigation 
period’). The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of injury covered the period from 1 January 2018 to 
the end of the investigation period (‘the period considered’).
(13) For organisational purposes, the verification visit of some related companies took place at the premises of the manufacturing entity.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/13  

(103) The Bien & Qua Group and CGCSA challenged the investigation period chosen by the Commission. They claimed 
that it was not “close enough” or “immediate enough” to the initiation date as provided for in Article 6(1) of the 
basic Regulation. Also, they claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic had made the year 2020 unprecedented, 
characterised by significant market volatility and thus not representative as such for the purpose of objective 
dumping and injury determinations. For these reasons, the Bien & Qua Group stated that the Commission should 
have chosen 1 October 2020 to 30 September 2021 as investigation period and 1 January 2017 to 
30 September 2021 as period considered.
(104) Article 6(1) of the basic Regulation does not require a period that is “immediate enough”; it states that the 
investigation period chosen by the Commission shall, normally cover a period of “no less than six months 
immediately prior to the initiation of proceedings”. The Commission’s choice of investigation period was fully in 
line with that provision. The Commission took into consideration the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic for this 
investigation (in particular, see section 5.2.5 of this Regulation). In this regard, the Commission noted that the Bien 
& Qua Group provided no evidence on why the period they suggested would have led to more appropriate findings, 
in particular since it was also affected by the market volatility due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The claims were 
dismissed.
(105) Following final disclosure, two Turkish interested parties, Yurtbay Seramik and Sogutsen Seramik, reiterated that 
when setting the investigation period, the Commission did not choose a period close enough to the date of 
initiation and thus did not examine the most recent data available.
(106) This claim was already addressed (see recitals (103) and (104)). Since the parties did not present any new arguments, 
the Commission confirmed the rejection of the claim.
1.10. Non-imposition of provisional measures
(107) Pursuant to Article 7(1) of the basic Regulation, the deadline for the imposition of provisional measures was 
12 August 2022. On 15 July 2022, in accordance with Article 19a(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission 
informed the interested parties of its intention not to impose provisional measures and gave the interested parties 
the opportunity to submit additional information and/or to be heard. One group of Turkish exporting producers 
recalled its request for individual examination and the potential effects that measures could have on its investments 
in the Union. One importer submitted a request for individual examination of its trade partners in India (see recital 
(89)). The same importer also presented further details concerning its business model and the impact of potential 
measures on its activities at a hearing. The Commission furthermore organised a hearing on product scope with 
one Indian exporting producer.
(108) Since no provisional anti-dumping measures were imposed, no registration of imports was performed.
1.11. Subsequent procedure
(109) The Commission continued to seek and verify all the information it deemed necessary for its final findings.
(110) Following the analysis of the collected and verified data, the Commission informed the Bien & Qua Group of its 
intention to apply facts available to certain parts of their questionnaire replies in accordance with Article 18 of the 
basic Regulation. The Commission gave the company the opportunity to comment. The reasons for the application 
of facts available and the comments submitted by the company are addressed in section 3.2.1 of this Regulation.
(111) When reaching its definitive findings, the Commission considered the comments submitted by interested parties.
(112) On 28 October 2022, the Commission informed all interested parties of the essential facts and considerations on the 
basis of which it intended to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of ceramic tiles originating in India 
and Türkiye (‘final disclosure’). All parties were granted a period within which they could make comments on the 
final disclosure.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/14 
10.2.2023  

(113) One sampled exporting producer from Türkiye received a clarification to its final disclosure as a clerical error in one 
part of the disclosure had resulted in a contradiction with another element of the disclosure. One sampled exporting 
producer from Türkiye and two sampled exporting producers from India received additional final disclosures. In 
addition, since some of the comments received subsequent to the final disclosure resulted in a revision of the 
dumping, undercutting, and injury margins as well as the Commission’s findings on injury and causation, on 
5 December 2022 the Commission sent additional partial disclosure (‘additional partial disclosure’) to all interested 
parties.
(114) Following the final disclosure and the additional disclosures, comments were received from all sampled exporting 
producers, several non-sampled exporting producers from both countries concerned, the Government of Türkiye, 
the Government of India (‘GoI’), the complainant and three Union importers. The Commission held hearings with 
two sampled exporting producers from Türkiye, several non-sampled exporting producers from Türkiye and their 
association, the GoT, the three sampled exporting produces from India, a group of non-sampled exporting 
producers from India, the GoI and one Union importer. The Hearing Officer held a hearing with Ceramika Netto.
2. PRODUCT UNDER INVESTIGATION, PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT
2.1. Product under investigation
(115) The product under investigation is ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles; ceramic mosaic cubes and the like, 
whether or not on a backing; finishing ceramics, currently falling under CN codes 6907 21 00, 6907 22 00, 
6907 23 00, 6907 30 00 and 6907 40 00 (‘the product under investigation’).
(116) Ceramic tiles are slabs of ceramic material used in interiors and exteriors to cover floors and walls (including 
countertops etc.). Ceramic tiles come in different sizes, ranging from mosaics to large slabs with sides as long as 3 
meters or more. Their surface may be naturally smooth, mechanically polished, rough or with reliefs for special 
purposes (e.g. tactile tiles, anti-slip tiles). Ceramic tiles can be glazed, unglazed or decorated in the ceramic body 
with special mixtures. Glazes are mixtures of various materials and composites (glass, kaolin, siliceous sand, oxides, 
colouring pigments etc.) and give the ceramic tiles aesthetic and technical properties that the body cannot provide 
to the required degree. Ceramic tiles may be rectified or non-rectified. Rectification is a process of precise 
mechanical grinding of the edges after firing.
(117) The body of a ceramic tile is mainly produced from a mixture of clays, feldspars, sands, carbonates and kaolins. The 
mixture of raw materials is dry or wet milled. Wet-milled mixture is further spray dried to reduce its moisture 
content. Milled raw materials are mixed into a consistent paste. Tiles are formed from that paste by dry pressing or 
extrusion. The formed body of a tile is further dried in horizontal or vertical dryers. After this step, glazes may be 
applied. Finally, the tiles are fired in a kiln. The firing process has three stages: preheating, firing and cooling. 
Additional treatment, such as polishing or rectification, is carried out after the firing.
(118) European standard EN 14411 that provides for definitions, classification, characteristics and marking criteria divides 
ceramic tiles into groups by their water absorption rate and shaping process. Their technical characteristics include 
mechanical strength and resistance to abrasion.
2.2. Product concerned
(119) The product concerned is the product under investigation originating in India and Türkiye (‘the product concerned’).
2.3. Like product
(120) The investigation showed that the following products have the same basic physical, chemical and technical 
characteristics as well as the same basic uses:
— the product concerned when exported to the Union;
— the product under investigation produced and sold on the domestic market of countries concerned; and
— the product under investigation produced and sold in the Union by the Union industry.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/15  

(121) Therefore, the Commission decided that those products are like products within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the 
basic Regulation.
2.4. Claims regarding product scope
(122) A number of Indian producers and their associations, the Indian Council and Association, made several claims 
concerning the product scope. The parties requested that double-charge tiles, large slabs, specialty tiles (high-gloss 
tiles, high-depth tiles, carving tiles and tiles with granular surface) and tiles manufactured using a roller press be 
excluded from the product scope of the investigation and that, with regard to wall tiles, only single-fired tiles remain 
in the product scope. One exporting producer reiterated its request for an exclusion of large slabs during a hearing 
held after the Commission informed parties it would not impose provisional measures.
(123) CET argued that the definition of ceramic tiles by international standard ISO 13006:2018 should be used to 
determine whether a certain type of ceramic tiles falls within the scope of this investigation. The standard defined 
ceramic tiles as “thin slabs made from clays and/or other inorganic raw materials, generally used as covering for 
floors and walls, usually shaped by extruding (A) or pressing (B) at room temperature, but may be formed by other 
processes (C), then dried and subsequently fired at temperature sufficient to develop the required properties”. The 
complainant submitted that this definition covered different types of ceramic tiles with the same basic physical, 
chemical and technical characteristics and the same basic uses. With regard to the use, CET argued that the 
definition allows for uses other than the covering of floors and walls.
(124) The Indian Council and Association and exporting producers submitted that ceramic tiles with a minimum side 
length of 120 cm (‘large slabs’) should be excluded from the product scope. The parties claimed that large slabs 
were manufactured using a different production process and equipment, they had different cost of production, 
price, end applications, consumer perception and technical parameters, e.g. the weight of a large slab per square 
meter was higher than the weight of a standard tile. The parties submitted that the large slabs in question were not 
used as floor or walls covering.
(125) With regard to the production process, several Indian exporting producers argued that ceramic tiles manufactured 
using the roller press technology should be excluded. The parties explained that this technology was used to 
produce ceramic tiles of a large dimension. It was, therefore, understood that those parties also effectively requested 
the exclusion of large slabs. One Indian exporting producer, Lioli Ceramica Private Limited (‘Lioli’), also claimed that 
companies manufacturing large slabs normally did not produce standard tiles. It added that the differences in 
production process concerned the mixture of raw materials used, the higher temperature at which the large slabs 
were fired, the addition of netting on the back of the large slabs and the pressure at which the large slabs were 
packed.
(126) Lioli moreover argued that large slabs had different physical, chemical and technical characteristics, different 
channels of distribution, and that they did not compete and were not interchangeable with standard tiles. This 
company produced large slabs primarily used for kitchen countertops or bathroom fixtures. The company claimed 
that such slabs could be used as floor and walls covering. Standard tiles, however, could not be used as countertops 
or bathroom vanities. Thus there was a lack of interchangeability and competition with standard tiles. Large slabs 
and standard tiles were, according to the company, sold via different sales channels – shops selling countertops 
would not offer standard tiles and not all shops offering standard tiles would also sell countertops. With regard to 
physical characteristics, the exporting producer pointed at the dimensions and thickness of large slabs, which were 
greater than for standard tiles; the different look of the surface once plastered with large slabs instead of standard 
tiles; and the addition of netting on the back of the large slabs enabling their installation. With regard to chemical 
and technical characteristics, the company argued that the large slabs had to be tested as they came in contact with 
food; they had lower water absorption; and higher resistance to abrasion and scratches.
(127) In addition to the arguments described in recitals (125) and (126), the Indian exporting producer argued at a hearing 
that the large slabs required different storage and handling, cutting tools, installation methods, tools and 
professionals involved as compared to small tiles. Finally, the interested party recalled that the complaint did not 
contain any evidence of dumping with regard to large slabs from India.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/16 
10.2.2023  

(128) The complainant submitted that large slabs were produced in the Union in sufficient quantities and it would be 
incorrect to assume that the Indian large slabs were not comparable to slabs produced by the Union industry. In 
fact, it was the Union producers that first developed large slabs and placed them on the market. The size of a tile per 
se did not have an impact on its chemical and technical characteristics. In fact, the chemical composition of large 
porcelain slabs was comparable to other porcelain tiles. Technical characteristics such as water absorption, strength 
and durability were not captured by the definition of ceramic tiles provided by ISO 13006:2018. Water absorption 
was, however, one of the characteristics determining various types of ceramic tiles – porcelain tiles having a water 
absorption of less than 0,5 %. A small porcelain tile had a water absorption similar to a large porcelain slab. The 
complainant submitted that also the suggestion that only large slabs had to be tested as they came in contact with 
food was wrong. According to CET, even smaller porcelain tiles used, for example, in industrial kitchens or food 
manufacturing facilities, required similar levels of hygiene and safety. Finally, CET argued that the production 
process, i.e. roller press used for large slabs as compared to hydraulic press used for standard tiles, did not alter the 
basic physical, chemical and technical characteristics of the final product.
(129) The investigation confirmed that large slabs were also produced in the Union. In fact, two of the sampled Union 
producers manufactured such slabs. Therefore, large slabs imported from India were in competition with slabs 
produced by the Union industry. In this respect, the product types defined for the purpose of this investigation 
captured amongst others such characteristics as working surface size and water absorption. Such definition of 
product types provided for a fair comparison and ensured that large slabs were not compared to ceramic tiles of 
smaller sizes. The inclusion of working surface size in the determination of product types further ensured that any 
differences in the cost of production between the roller press and the hydraulic press technologies were taken into 
consideration. With regard to the lack of evidence of dumping, the Commission considered that the complaint 
contained sufficient prima facie evidence of dumped imports of the product concerned originating in India. 
Consequently, the Commission rejected the claim.
(130) Following final disclosure, Lioli reiterated their request for an exclusion of large slabs, i.e. tiles manufactured using 
the roller press production process. The company recalled that the production of large slabs included an additional 
step – adding of netting at the back. In addition, the company submitted a research article, which presented results 
of testing of large slabs. The research showed inter alia that the water absorption of large slabs was below 0,1 %.
(131) The GoI and sixteen Indian exporting producers supported an exclusion of large slabs for the purpose of fair 
comparison.
(132) CET reiterated their opposition and their arguments against an exclusion of large slabs from the product scope.
(133) The Commission recalled that large slabs had physical, chemical and technical characteristics similar to other types 
of ceramic tiles. In addition, large slabs were produced in the Union, including by two sampled Union producers. In 
fact, the research quoted by Lioli was conducted on large slabs produced by three manufacturers in Italy and Spain. It 
did not prove that large slabs produced in India were not comparable to large slabs produced in the Union. In this 
respect, the Commission ensured fair comparison as it included the working size of ceramic tiles in the definition of 
product types. Consequently, the Commission confirmed the rejection of this exclusion request.
(134) The Indian associations and producers claimed that double-charge tiles should be excluded from the product scope. 
Double-charge tiles were produced by infusing two layers together. The upper layer contained pigments and was 
about 3 to 4 mm thick. The lower layer consisted of the base body. According to the parties, double-charge tiles 
were thicker than normal flooring tiles, low maintenance, extremely durable, of superior quality and sold at higher 
prices.
(135) With regard to this claim, CET submitted that the parties did not provide any elements which would suggest that 
double-charge tiles did not share the same basic physical, chemical and technical characteristics as other tiles. The 
complainant further pointed out that double-charge tiles fell under the definition of ceramic tiles provided by ISO 
13006:2018. Finally, CET emphasised that with regard to thickness, the complaint described the product as 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/17  

“ranging from approximately 3 mm for some wall-covering ceramic tiles to 20 – 30 mm for extruded and ceramic 
tiles used for raised floors or thick floors” (14), thus including ceramic tiles of higher thickness in the product scope 
of the complaint.
(136) The claim was dismissed. Double-charge ceramic tiles were made of the same raw materials, used the same 
production processes as other ceramic tiles and thus had the same basic physical, chemical and technical 
characteristics as other tiles. Depending on the final use, thickness (and other criteria) may vary and all ceramic tiles, 
regardless of thickness, were included in the scope of the investigation as defined in the Notice of Initiation. The fact 
that double-charge tiles were manufactured by infusing two layers of tiles together, making them thicker than most 
standard tiles and thus offering more strength and durability, making them specially suitable for high traffic areas, 
did not justify an exclusion. Their final use, covering floors, was the same as that of other ceramic tiles, with which 
they shared the same characteristics and with which they were interchangeable, as a customer may opt for one or 
the other.
(137) The Indian Council and Association and exporting producers further submitted that certain special tiles, such as high 
gloss tiles, high depth tiles, carving tiles and tiles with granular surface (so called “sugar finish”), should be excluded 
from the product scope as their cost of production and subsequently their sales price were higher when compared 
to other ceramic tiles. The difference in cost and price was caused by the use of additional raw materials. The parties 
further submitted that the sugar finish tiles have different characteristics from other tiles as they hide dirt well and 
are slip resistant. In addition, the manufacturing process of sugar finish tiles was unique and advanced, as claimed 
by the Indian producers.
(138) The complainant submitted that those special tiles fell within the definition of ceramic tiles by ISO 13006:2018. The 
main difference between the special tiles and other tiles was in their design. For example, the sugar finish was applied 
after the tile body was already produced. Therefore, the special design did not change the basic physical, chemical 
and technical characteristics of the tiles. Furthermore, the addition of another raw material had a marginal effect on 
the cost of production. Finally, these special tiles were also produced by the Union industry and thus in direct 
competition and causing injury to the Union producers. The production process was well known to the Union 
industry and it was specifically included in the complaint (15).
(139) The claim was dismissed. Sugar finish tiles have the same basic physical, chemical and technical characteristics as 
other tiles. The parties provided no evidence to the contrary. Sugar finish tiles were also interchangeable with other 
tiles; their special design may make them especially suitable for some uses such as kitchen flooring due to their non- 
skid properties, but these uses were the same as those of other tiles.
(140) Following final disclosure, sixteen Indian exporting producers reiterated their request for an exclusion of tiles with 
granular surface (i.e. sugar finish tiles) based on their claim that there was not a sufficient production capacity in the 
Union for ceramic tiles with such finish.
(141) The Commission noted that the companies did not provide any evidence concerning the alleged insufficient 
production capacity of sugar finish tiles in the Union. The claim was dismissed.
(142) Finally, the Indian producers, Council and Association submitted that the product scope should be limited to single- 
fired tiles as far as it concerns wall tiles. The parties claimed that double-fired wall tiles were a high-end product 
requiring better raw materials and higher cost of production.
(143) The complainant stated that double-fired wall tiles fell within the definition of ceramic tiles by ISO 13006:2018. It 
further submitted that the quality of raw materials was not a legitimate reason for an exclusion. On the contrary, 
double-fired wall tiles produced by Indian exporting producers and exported to the Union were in direct 
competition with such tiles produced by the Union industry and thus it was necessary they remained in the product 
scope. CET pointed out that the sampled Union producers manufactured double-fired wall tiles.
(14) Executive summary of the Complaint, p.1.
(15) Annexes 5 and 20 of the Complaint.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/18 
10.2.2023  

(144) The Commission found that double-fired wall tiles produced by the Indian exporting producers were no different 
from the ones produced by the Union industry in their basic physical, chemical and technical characteristics and in 
their use. In addition, the product types’ definition distinguished between single-fired and double-fired tiles, thus 
ensuring a fair comparison. Consequently, the claim was rejected.
(145) In addition to the above product scope exclusions, the Indian producers, including two of the sampled companies, 
suggested that the definition of product types for the purpose of fair comparison should take into account water 
absorption, manufacturing process (roller or hydraulic press), width, length, thickness, coating type (glazed or 
unglazed), glaze type (glossy, high gloss, matte or sugar), surface finishing (polished or unpolished).
(146) The Commission noted that water absorption, width and length through the working surface size, thickness, glazing 
and polishing were already reflected in the definition of product types. Since the roller press technology was used in 
the manufacturing of large slabs, the working surface size characteristic implicitly enabled to separate the two 
production processes. The Commission also took into account colouring of the body, rectification and consistency 
with a quality standard equivalent to ISO 13006:2018. The Commission considered that those characteristics were 
sufficient to capture the differences in costs and prices among various product types and thus ensure fair 
comparison. Therefore, the Commission rejected the suggested revision of the product types’ definition.
(147) After final disclosure, the Conor Group reiterated the claim referred to under recital (145), in particular by arguing 
that the Commission had erroneously considered that the difference in the cost and selling price of products did not 
differentiate with the change in the physical characteristic of glaze type products. The Commission’s finding that the 
adjustments for the physical characteristics were sufficient to capture the differences in costs and prices among 
various product types and thus ensure a fair comparison would not be supported by facts presented by Conor 
Group in their submissions to the Commission. Therefore, it submitted that the rejection of the suggested PCN for 
Conor Group is unjustified and inconsistent with Article 2(10)(a) of the basic Regulation.
(148) The claim was rejected. The Commission could not establish, based on the cost of production reported by the Conor 
Group, that there was a consistent material difference in production costs for ‘matt’, ‘glossy’ or ‘sugar’ products. 
Moreover, the reiterated claim by the Conor Group was not further corroborated by any additional analysis, which 
would support it. For confidentiality reasons, further details concerning the Commission’s reasoning on this point 
were sent only to the Conor Group.
(149) Following final disclosure, Serapool Porselen, a Turkish producer of ceramic tiles, enquired about the definition of 
the product scope and claimed that swimming pool tiles should be excluded. The company claimed that pool tiles 
had lower water absorption (0,3 % – 0,5 %) than other porcelain tiles (0,5 %), were produced on order for 
customers which make decisions based on quality and design over price, were sold via different distribution 
channels (e.g. direct contact with the customer without the involvement of wholesalers), and had special properties 
(coating preventing bacteria formation, superior strength and durability).
(150) The Commission noted that, as specified in section 2 of the Notice of Initiation, the deadline for submission of 
information on product scope including any exclusion requests was 10 days after the initiation of the proceeding, i. 
e. on 23 December 2021. Serapool Porselen submitted their claim on 9 November 2022, i.e. ten and a half months 
after the deadline. At this stage of the investigation, the Commission was unable to assess whether swimming pool 
tiles had such distinct characteristics that would justify an exclusion from the product scope. Nevertheless, the 
investigation showed that porcelain tiles produced by the sampled Union producers had water absorption of less 
than 0,5 %. Therefore, the argument concerning the differences in water absorption between pool tiles and other 
porcelain tiles could not be accepted. Moreover, exclusion of tiles based on their potential use rather than a specific 
property or characteristic would make the measures susceptible to circumvention. Consequently, the Commission 
clarified that swimming pool tiles were covered by the investigation and rejected the request for their exclusion 
from the product scope.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/19  

3. DUMPING
3.1. India
3.1.1. Normal value
(151) The Commission first examined whether the total volume of domestic sales for each sampled exporting producer 
was representative, in accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales are representative if 
the total domestic sales volume of the like product to independent customers on the domestic market per exporting 
producer represented at least 5 % of its total export sales volume of the product concerned to the Union during the 
investigation period. On this basis, the total sales by each sampled exporting producer of the like product on the 
domestic market were representative.
(152) The Commission subsequently identified the product types sold domestically that were identical or comparable with 
the product types sold for export to the Union. To that end, the Commission excluded transactions of subprime 
quality from the domestic sales used for the assessment of the normal value. During the production process, after 
ocular quality control, the exporting producers deem ceramic tiles that are of less the perfect quality as “subprime” 
quality. These sub-standard tiles are sold on the domestic market at significant discounts, while only tiles of prime 
quality are sold to the Union. In order to make a fair comparison with the price to the Union, only sales on the 
domestic market of prime quality have been included in the calculation of the normal value. All sampled exporting 
producers sold tiles of subprime quality on the domestic market whereas they sold solely prime quality for export 
to the Union.
(153) After the final disclosure, the Conor Group claimed in this respect that the Commission suo moto decided to add 
quality of the product as a parameter for comparison, without having considered it as a PCN characteristic at any 
stage of the proceeding. Therefore, the Commission’s application of the PCN methodology would be invalidated as 
the changes in PCN proposed by Conor Group were rejected (see section 2.4 above), whereas a physical 
characteristic which had not been proposed by any interested party was incorporated in the methodology to carry 
out a comparison under Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation.
(154) This claim had to be rejected. The Commission only learned during the verifications in India that sales of subprime 
quality were sold in not insignificant quantities on the domestic market, while such tiles were not exported. By 
ocular inspection, the Commission officials on the spot in India could establish that subprime tiles were of a clearly 
lower quality than prime tiles. Prices invoiced for such sales were overall lower than prices for prime quality sales of 
corresponding product types. On the domestic sales invoices, such sales could be clearly identified. Keeping such 
subprime sales in the domestic sales used for assessing the normal value would be in conflict with conducting a fair 
comparison of like with like products.
(155) The Commission then examined whether the domestic sales by each sampled exporting producer on its domestic 
market for each product type that is identical or comparable with a product type sold for export to the Union were 
representative, in accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales of a product type are 
representative if the total volume of domestic sales of that product type to independent customers during the 
investigation period represents at least 5 % of the total volume of export sales of the identical or comparable 
product type to the Union. The Commission established that the domestic sales of part of the sold product types 
were representative. Some product types were not sold in representative volumes on the domestic market, i.e. in 
volumes below 5% of the total volume of export sales of the identical or comparable product type to the Union.
(156) The Commission next defined the proportion of profitable sales to independent customers on the domestic market 
for each product type sold in representative volumes during the investigation period in order to decide whether to 
use actual domestic sales for the calculation of the normal value, in accordance with Article 2(4) of the basic 
Regulation.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/20 
10.2.2023  

(157) The normal value is based on the actual domestic price per product type, irrespective of whether those sales are 
profitable or not, if:
(a) the sales volume of the product type, sold at a net sales price equal to or above the calculated cost of production, 
represented more than 80 % of the total sales volume of this product type; and
(b) the weighted average sales price of that product type is equal to or higher than the unit cost of production.
(158) In this case, the normal value is the weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales of that product type during 
the investigation period.
(159) The normal value is the actual domestic price per product type of only the profitable domestic sales of the product 
types during the investigation period, if:
(a) the volume of profitable sales of the product type represents 80 % or less of the total sales volume of this type: or
(b) the weighted average price of this product type is below the unit cost of production.
(160) The analysis of domestic sales showed that, depending on the product type, 9 to 60 % of all domestic sales of the 
Conor Group, 0 to 100 % of all domestic sales of the Icon Group and of the Lavish Group respectively were 
profitable and that the weighted average sales price was, as long as more than 5% of the domestic sales of the 
respective product type were profitable, higher than the cost of production. Accordingly, the normal value was 
calculated as a weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales during the investigation period or a weighted 
average of the profitable sales only.
(161) For the product types where the weighted average sales price was lower than the cost of production, the normal 
value was calculated as a weighted average of the profitable sales of that product type.
(162) Where there were no sales of a product type of the like product in the ordinary course of trade, or where a product 
type was not sold in representative quantities on the domestic market, the Commission constructed the normal 
value in accordance with Article 2(3) and (6) of the basic Regulation.
(163) Normal value was constructed by adding the following to the average cost of production of the like product of each 
cooperating sampled exporting producer during the investigation period:
(a) the weighted average selling, general and administrative (‘SG&A’) expenses incurred by each cooperating 
sampled exporting producer on domestic sales of the like product, in the ordinary course of trade, during the 
investigation period; and
(b) the weighted average profit realised by each cooperating sampled exporting producer on domestic sales of the 
like product, in the ordinary course of trade, during the investigation period.
(164) For the product types not sold in representative quantities on the domestic market, the average SG&A expenses and 
profit of transactions made in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market for those types were added. For 
the product types not sold at all on the domestic market, the weighted average SG&A expenses and profit of all 
transactions made in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market were added.
3.1.2. Export price
(165) The sampled groups of exporting producers exported to the Union either directly to independent customers or 
through related companies in India.
(166) Therefore, the export price was the price actually paid or payable for the product concerned when sold for export to 
the Union, in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation.
3.1.3. Comparison
(167) The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the sampled groups of exporting producers on 
an ex-works basis.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/21  

(168) Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation. Adjustments for freight, insurance, handling, credit costs and bank charges were deducted from domestic 
and/or export sales prices where reported and found justified. Claims for allowances for credit costs on the domestic 
sales side were rejected, as it was not clear from the invoice or sales contract what the payment terms were.
(169) The sampled producers sold the product concerned either directly or through related producers/traders for export to 
the EU. In the latter cases, i.e. where sales were made through related producers/traders, the prices of these 
transactions have been adjusted to account for the mark-up achieved by the related producers/traders pursuant to 
Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation. Concerning these trading transactions, the Commission calculated one 
single weighted average mark-up resulting from the difference between prices related to purchases from unrelated 
suppliers in India and subsequent resale prices to independent customers in the Union. The Commission opted for a 
single weighted average mark-up for the traders of all three sampled groups in order to ensure that the volumes in 
the equation were largely representative and ensured a trustworthy result. This mark-up was properly adjusted to 
exclude double counting of allowances already made and net of these allowances deducted from these related 
traders’ export price. Further details of the adjustment were provided as part of the company specific disclosures in 
order to ensure confidentiality.
(170) Following the final disclosure, the Lavish Group claimed that, as the Commission intended to reject the mark-up 
realised from transactions with related parties because they were not considered to be at arm’s length, the mark-up 
adjustment pursuant to Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation should be based on the actual commission paid by 
the Lavish Group for export sales to the Union to an unrelated agent for carrying out the functions of an agent on a 
commission basis.
(171) This claim had to be rejected. The transactions at stake were exports of the product concerned that were purchased 
from related producers within the Lavish Group. These transactions are similar to and most resembling exports of 
the product concerned that were purchased from unrelated suppliers in India. In such cases, a mark-up within the 
meaning of the second subparagraph of Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation is received by the exporting trader. 
By contrast, revenues on commissions, as referred to under the second subparagraph of Article 2(10)(i) of the basic 
Regulation, are subject to specific contractual conditions. Unlike a trader, an agent working on a commission basis 
does not buy and resell the product concerned but simply brokers the transaction between seller and buyer. 
Moreover, under the Commission’s practice, mark-up adjustments were consistently calculated based on the 
mark-up received by the relevant trader, i.e. an amount for selling, general and administrative costs plus a profit. As 
the present mark-up that was made when the exporting trader purchased from a related producer was unreliable in 
view of the relationship between the concerned parties, the Commission had to replace it with a mark-up that 
reflected arm’s length conditions, i.e. the mark-up that an exporting trader would receive when purchasing from 
unrelated suppliers in India.
(172) The Conor Group and the Government of India claimed that the mark-up adjustment to the export price is 
inconsistent with Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation. It argued that the adjustment to the export price on 
account of the mark-up received by a trader under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation was applied without 
demonstrating that trading activities within related companies resulted in difference in price comparability between 
the domestic market and the export market (third sentence of Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation).
(173) This claim was considered flawed. The investigation confirmed the existence of a mark-up for export sales while 
there was none for domestic sales, therefore creating a difference in price comparability within the meaning of the 
third sentence of Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation which needed to be offset pursuant to Article 2(10)(i) of the 
basic Regulation.
(174) Moreover, the Conor Group argued that, in applying the adjustment, the Commission had not expressly requested 
information from it nor was it asked to demonstrate if these prices were at arm’s length or not (i.e. indicative 
whether the prices were reliable or not). According to the Conor Group, all evidence on the record indicated that all 
transactions within the Conor Group were at arm’s length. In light of the above, it found that the application of the 
mentioned mark up was not justified.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/22 
10.2.2023  

(175) In relation to this argument, the Commission found that the most important trader within the Conor Group (in 
terms of the volume of total EU exports), purchased the product concerned from related suppliers at prices [10% to 
15%] greater than from unrelated suppliers. Moreover, the mark-up realised on the ceramic tiles exported to the 
Union after being purchased from unrelated suppliers was more than two times greater than the mark-up realised 
on the ceramic tiles exported to the Union after being purchased from related suppliers. The Commission 
considered these price and mark-up differences demonstrated that transactions between related parties within the 
Conor Group were not made at arm’s length.
(176) The Conor Group added that Concor International carried out no specific activities other than logistics and packing 
of finished goods because all sales were negotiated and finalised for all entities within the Conor Group. The 
Commission clarified that the activities of Concor International went beyond those described under this claim. For 
confidentiality reasons, further details were sent only to the Conor Group.
(177) The Conor Group also recalled that the Commission had requested information from unrelated merchant exporters 
in the month of April 2022. Later on, the Commission requested information on the purchase cost for each sale of 
traded goods during the on-spot verification. Both sets of data were requested without identification of the purpose 
or the manner in which the Commission might consider this information. In the absence of such request or 
clarification, the information used by the Commission from the submissions of Conor Group and other interested 
parties lacked accuracy as demonstrated in the clerical errors in computation of the mark-up value by the 
Commission. The Conor Group added that such analysis by the Commission should have been conducted as 
usually, in cooperation with interested parties, including Conor Group, and explaining how and why the relevant 
data were collected. Therefore, there would be no factual and legal basis for the application of the markup and a 
breach of due process right of Conor Group.
(178) The claim had to be rejected. The Commission is not under the obligation to explain a priori to investigated parties, 
or other parties from which it seeks cooperation, for which exact purpose certain information is requested, verified 
and/or will be used, provided that confidentiality requests are respected. Moreover, the Commission is not able to 
foresee at an early stage of an anti-dumping proceeding including the stage of conducting on-spot verifications at 
the premises of exporting producers, for which purpose exactly each set of collected data will be used. The process 
of requesting, collecting and verifying data has the purpose of fact-finding. The legal analysis and assessment, which 
includes determining for which purpose the available data are used, is conducted subsequently. The Commission has 
disclosed all information on which it based its findings, justifying and giving the reasons thereof and giving the 
opportunity for parties to comments on all the findings. Therefore, it has complied with its obligations in terms of 
transparency, reasoning and rights of defence.
(179) The Conor Group further claimed that, if the adjustment to the export price on account of the mark-up received by a 
trader under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation was applied to its sales, it should be computed based on the 
actual mark-up earned by unrelated merchant traders purchasing from the Conor Group and reselling for export, or 
the average profit earned by trading companies in India for ceramic tiles, or an average of these two methods. Any of 
these methods being applied would ensure that the single weighted average mark-up is “largely representative” and 
“trustworthy” based on the information available on the record of this investigation with the Commission. The 
Conor Group added that the use of other sampled companies data for computation of the dumping margin for the 
Conor Group is not consistent with Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation.
(180) The claim was rejected. The transactions that were subject to the application of the said mark-up adjustment were 
exports made by traders/producers of the sampled exporting producers that had purchased the product concerned 
from related suppliers. As mentioned in recital (175), the mark-up realised on these transactions could not be used 
by the Commission as a basis for the adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation because it was 
tainted by the relationship between the parties concerned. Obviously, the mark-up realised by the same exporting 
producers when purchasing the product concerned from unrelated suppliers was the closest available surrogate to 
replace the former mark-up. By contrast, the margins proposed by the Conor Group were realised by parties that 
are not part of the sampled groups of exporting producers.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/23  

(181) As to the argument that the use of other sampled companies’ data for computation of the dumping margin for the 
Conor Group was in breach with the basic Regulation, the Commission clarified that the basic Regulation indeed 
provides for scenarios where other parties’ data are used for the sake of calculating a dumping margin applicable to 
an individual exporting producers. This is for instance the case when an export price is adjusted under Article 2(9), 
involving the use of a profit margin realised by unrelated importers in the Union. With regard to the present case, 
the Commission reiterated that the calculation of the weighted average mark-up based on transactions made by all 
three sampled groups ensured the application of a widely representative adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) of the 
basic Regulation.
(182) The Conor Group further noted that in calculating the amount for the adjustment the Commission should keep in 
mind two dictionary meanings of the word “mark-up”, being, first, “an amount added to the cost price to determine 
the selling price, broadly: profit”, and, second, “an increase in the price of something, for example the difference 
between its cost and the price that it is sold for.” It argued that in both instances, the comparison of cost price to the 
selling price, resulting in the profit is the value of the mark-up. In reply, the Commission recalled that under Article 
2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation, duly considering the applicable jurisprudence, a mark-up consists of an amount for 
selling, general and administrative expenses and a profit, which insofar deviates from the suggested encyclopaedic 
definitions.
(183) The Conor Group also alleged that there were clerical errors in the computation of the mark-up. Specifically, the 
Conor Group argued that if the sales value included the recovery of packing costs from the customer, but the 
purchase cost did not include this amount, it would amount to double counting of the amount of packing cost in 
the allowances as first, the packing cost was included in the allowance for the mark-up and, second, packing cost 
was itself adjusted again from the export price in the Commission’s calculation of total allowances.
(184) In addition, the Conor Group claimed that the total cost of general and administrative expenses and finance expenses 
should be added to the cost before comparing to the sales value, and that the Commission had added to the mark-up 
percentage the refund of duties expected to be received by exporters. Should the Commission continue applying this 
addition, it should also allow an adjustment to the normal value for the allowance claimed on import charges and 
indirect taxes.
(185) The Commission rejected these claims. First, with regard to the claim that packing costs would be deducted twice 
from the export price, the Commission noted that the Conor Group did not substantiate its claim, least not as it 
never proved let alone quantified the amount of any packing costs included in the total purchase costs of the tiles in 
question. Moreover, the Commission confirmed that the data on file did not point at any double-counting of packing 
costs, as the Conor Group seemed to suggest. Most importantly, the claim suffers from a fundamental flaw as to the 
concept of the mark-up within the meaning of Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation. The mark-up equals the 
difference between the full purchase price paid (irrespective of what costs, such as packing costs, the supplier may 
have incurred) and the total sales revenue realised by the respective trader. In other words, the mark-up consists of 
selling, general and administrative expenses and finance expenses and profit, plus any other specific revenues 
realised on the export sales in question. To account for all these elements, the Commission’s approach to use the 
gross margin between purchase prices invoiced by unrelated suppliers and the resale prices to independent 
customers is appropriate as long as the thus resulting adjustment does not include any other adjustments made 
under Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation. For this reason, the Conor Group’s claim concerning any wrongful 
inclusion of general and administrative expenses and finance expenses in the applied mark-up under Article 2(10)(i) 
of the basic Regulation was likewise dismissed. Third, the Commission recalled that refund of duties that the 
exporters have received increases effectively the revenue realised on the export sales in question. By contrast, the 
domestic sales are not subject to any such refund. Applying an adjustment to the normal value for the export 
refunds received would therefore be flawed.
(186) The Conor Group also identified that the Commission’s formula used for calculating the total allowance in the 
export sales of Concor International double-counted “Clearing & Forwarding Charges” as they were already 
included in the formula to compute “handling loading and ancillary expenses at the premises in exporting country” 
in the export sales listing. The Commission accepted this claim and therefore corrected the identified clerical error 
in favour of the Conor Group’s exporting producers.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/24 
10.2.2023  

(187) Pursuant to final disclosure, the Icon Group claimed that the Commission should not have deducted the mark-up 
from the Icon Group’s indirect export sales to the EU pursuant to Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation as the Icon 
Group’s related producers and traders form a Single Economic Entity (‘SEE’) (16).
(188) In this context, the Icon Group alleged that the producers within the Icon Group share a unitary organisation of 
personal, tangible and intangible elements, supply and industry know-how between themselves in order to deliver a 
high-quality Icon brand and have a formal and personal interest in the economic success of their related companies. 
In addition, so the Icon Group continued, it shares one product catalogue and has one single website, called “Icon 
World of Tile”, which refers to “the company”. That website has one single point of contact for customer orders.
(189) The Icon Group pointed to the Court of Justice judgment in Matsushita Electric Industrial, according to which “the 
division of production activities and sales activities within a group made up of legally distinct companies can in no 
way alter the fact that those companies are an SEE which organises in that way activities that in other cases are 
carried on by what is, also from a legal point of view, a single entity.” (17)
(190) The claim of the exporting producers within the Icon Group to be considered an SEE was rejected. For confidentiality 
reasons, details with regard to this assessment were sent only to the Icon Group.
(191) The Icon Group further claimed that the Commission had not adduced any evidence as to why it considered that “for 
indirect transactions the related exporting producers acted as traders whose functions were similar to those of an 
agent working on a commission basis.”
(192) The Commission considered this claim unfounded. It is uncontested that the relevant transactions were carried out 
in two steps, first a trader/producer within the Icon Group purchased the product concerned from a related 
producer, second the same trader/producer exported the thus purchased product concerned to the Union. There is 
therefore evidence that trader’s activities are carried out by the respective trader/producer in the Icon Group.
(193) In the alternative, the Icon Group submitted that domestic and export sales should be treated equally, meaning that a 
mark-up should also be applied to the Group’s indirect domestic sales.
(194) The Commision rejected the claim as the domestic sales contracts and export sales contracts differed by nature. For 
confidentiality reasons, details with regard to this assessment were sent only to the Icon Group.
(195) One group of exporting producers claimed adjustments to the normal value and export price for inventory credit 
costs, i.e. theoretical financial cost for goods in stock, under Article 2(10)(k) of the basic Regulation. The claim was 
rejected, as it could not be substantiated that the difference in time during which goods sat in stock affected price 
comparability.
(196) The same group of exporting producers also claimed an adjustment related to advertising costs, consisting of costs 
on setting up billboards near Morbi/Gujarat, the production location, incurred for sales on the domestic market, 
under Article 2(10)(k) of the basic Regulation. The group was neither able to quantify such adjustment nor to 
demonstrate that it affected price comparability. The claim has therefore been rejected.
(197) Finally, all sampled companies claimed adjustments to the normal value under Article 2(10)(b) of the basic 
Regulation on alleged import charges and indirect taxes. The investigation revealed however that the claim was 
unfounded. In fact, the sampled exporters received, under two schemes (Notification No. 07/2020-CUSTOMS (N.T.) 
and Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RODTEP)) export refunds worth 2% of the export invoice 
value, irrespective of whether any import duties or indirect taxes were paid for the raw materials that were 
incorporated in the exported tiles. The refunds were granted on the mere proof of the goods being exported. These 
(16) The Icon Group referred to C-468/15 P, PT Musim Mas v Council, EU:C:2016:803, para. 39; and C-468/15 P, PT Musim Mas v 
Council, EU:C:2016:803, para. 42; Case T-716/19, Interpipe Niko Tube and Interpipe Nizhnedneprovsky Tube Rolling Plant v 
Commission, ECLI:EU:T:2021:457, para.133.
(17) C-104/90, Matsushita Electric Industrial v Council, EU:C:1993:837, para. 9
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/25  

claims were rejected, because the actual export refunds could not be linked to any amounts corresponding to any 
import charges or indirect taxes borne by the like product and by materials physically incorporated therein, as 
provided by Article 2(10)(b) of the basic Regulation.
3.1.4. Dumping margins
(198) For the sampled cooperating groups of exporting producers, the Commission compared the weighted average 
normal value of each type of the like product with the weighted average export price of the corresponding type of 
the product concerned, in accordance with Article 2(11) and (12) of the basic Regulation.
(199) To this end, for all exporting producers within a group, a specific dumping margin has been calculated on the basis 
of the methodology laid down above. Thereafter, a weighted average dumping margin for the whole group was 
calculated.
(200) In the company specific final disclosure of 28 October 2022, the Commission had disclosed to two of the sampled 
exporting producers, Conor Group and Icon Group, that it had found appropriate to recalculate the CIF prices they 
had provided using transport data from the IHS Markit Global Trade Atlas™ database. After the final disclosure, 
both parties claimed that the Commission should have provided more detailed information on why the 
Commission had not accepted their reported CIF-prices and had established CIF prices on an alternative basis. After 
the Commission had provided this additional explanation through a Note to the file, they claimed, inter alia, that one 
of the datasets used by the Commission needed to be adjusted. The Commission agreed that the underlying data it 
had used were inaccurate and it revised the calculations accordingly.
(201) After the final disclosure, the Conor Group pointed to an inaccuracy in its dumping calculation as the Commission 
had double counted the allowance for certain logistics costs made to its sales to the Union. The claim was accepted 
and the calculation was corrected accordingly.
(202) The definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty unpaid, are as 
follows:
Company
Definitive dumping margin
The Conor Group
8,7 %
The Icon Group
6,7 %
The Lavish Group
0 %
(203) For the cooperating exporting producers outside the sample, the Commission calculated the weighted average 
dumping margin, in accordance with Article 9(6) of the basic Regulation. Therefore, that margin was established on 
the basis of the margins of the two sampled groups of exporting producers for which a dumping margins could be 
established, while disregarding the margin of the group of exporting producer with zero dumping margin.
(204) On this basis, the provisional dumping margin of the non-sampled cooperating exporting producers is 7,3 %.
(205) After final disclosure, several non-sampled Indian exporting producers claimed that the Commission failed to 
provide the detailed methodology used by the Commission for calculating the margins for sampled and non- 
sampled Indian companies. This claim was linked to similar claims made by the sampled Indian exporting 
producers that formed part of the Conor Group and the Lavish Group. These claims are addressed under recitals 
(170) to (186).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/26 
10.2.2023  

(206) For all other exporting producers in India, the Commission established the dumping margin on the basis of the facts 
available, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. To this end, the Commission determined the level of 
cooperation of the exporting producers. The level of cooperation is the volume of exports of the cooperating 
exporting producers to the Union expressed as proportion of the total imports from the country concerned to the 
Union in the investigation period, that were established on the basis of import statistics from Eurostat (Comext).
(207) The level of cooperation in this case was considered high because the exports of the cooperating exporting 
producers constituted around 84 % of the total imports during the investigation period. On this basis, the 
Commission considered it appropriate to establish the dumping margin for non-cooperating exporting producers at 
the level of the cooperating sampled group of exporting producers with the highest dumping margin.
(208) The definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty unpaid, are as 
follows:
Company
Definitive dumping margin
The Conor Group
8,7 %
The Icon Group
6,7 %
The Lavish Group
0 %
Other cooperating companies
7,3 %
All other companies
8,7 %
3.2. Türkiye
3.2.1. Article 18 of the basic Regulation
3.2.1.1. The Bien & Qua Group
(209) With regard to the Bien & Qua Group, during the investigation, the Commission inquired about the nature of the 
relationship between the manufacturers and the related traders in Türkiye part of the Bien & Qua Group. The 
information provided by the companies and collected by the Commission from other sources led the Commission 
to conclude that the group failed to provide the necessary information concerning written contractual arrangements.
(210) The Commission informed the company of its intention to apply Article 18 of the basic Regulation in relation to the 
information that it failed to provide.
(211) The explanations provided by the Bien & Qua Group following the Article 18 letter did not change the Commission’s 
conclusion that the group failed to provide the necessary information concerning written contractual arrangements.
(212) As a result, the Commission confirmed the application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
3.2.1.2. The Hitit Group
(213) On 21 November 2022, the Hitit Group requested the Commission to disregard the information provided in its 
questionnaire response as errors in it would not allow the Commission to calculate a “reasonably accurate finding” 
in the sense of Article 18(3) of the basic Regulation, and to treat the Hitit Group as a non-sampled cooperating 
exporting producer which would entail that it would be made subject to the sample average duty level. In this 
submission, it also proposed some corrections to its response and provided an alternative dumping calculation with 
the corrections made. On 7 December 2022, the party reiterated its request to apply Article 18 to the information 
provided and verified and the request was supported by the GOT.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/27  

(214) As a threshold matter, the Commission recalled that the submission of a revised dumping margin calculation post 
final disclosure and the request to apply Article 18 to the information provided and verified in due course were 
made at a stage where the Commission was no longer in a position to verify and therefore consider new data. For 
this reason only, the request and the new explanations and data provided by the Hitit Group should be rejected. The 
information submitted by the Hitit Group during the course of the investigation was found by the Commission not 
to be deficient to the point of causing undue difficulty in arriving at a reasonably accurate finding. The information 
was submitted in good time and verified during a verification visit. Therefore even, if the information was not ideal 
in all respects, it was not disregarded in accordance with Article 18(3) of the basic Regulation.
(215) For the sake of completeness and without prejudice to the above, the Commission noted that the fact that the Hitit 
Group presented an alternative dumping calculation contradicted their allegation that a dumping margin for the 
Hitit Group could not be determined. Moreover, the Hitit Group’s argument on the basis of Article 18(3) of the 
basic Regulation should be dismissed as it is based on an a contrario reading on this provision. Article 18(3) requires 
the Commission to use the information provided, unless certain conditions are met. It does not require the 
Commission to disregard the data if the Commission considers such data appropriate since it was provided by the 
company and verified by the Commission. The Commission further noted that the alleged mistakes in the 
questionnaire response claimed by the party mainly concerned a misclassification of some transactions under the 
relevant PCNs for product types representing a minor share of its EU sales transactions only. The Commission 
underlined that it calculated the Hitit Group’s dumping margin in the way presented in the sections below in light of 
datasets that were timely submitted and verified. The company also had the opportunity to make comments on the 
verification report. No allegations were made in time about incorrectness in the data provided and verified by the 
Commission. Once the Commission has received the necessary data, verified it and consider it reliable to make its 
dumping calculations, allegations by the company about errors in the underlying data are both unwarranted and 
unverifieable. Thus, those late allegations should be rejected and the data submitted and verified by the Commission 
should be accepted in accordance with Article 18(3) of the basic Regulation. For confidentiality reasons, the detailed 
reasons why the Hitit Group’s claims dated 7 December 2022 could not be retained were disclosed only to the party 
concerned.
3.2.2. Normal value
(216) The Commission first examined whether the total volume of domestic sales for each sampled cooperating exporting 
producer was representative, in accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales are 
representative if the total domestic sales volume of the like product to independent customers on the domestic 
market per exporting producer represent at least 5 % of its total export sales volume of the product concerned to 
the Union during the investigation period. On this basis, the total sales by each sampled exporting producer of the 
like product on the domestic market were representative.
(217) The Commission subsequently identified the product types sold domestically that were identical or comparable with 
the product types sold for export to the Union for the exporting producers with representative domestic sales. The 
Commission found that sampled exporting producers sold tiles of prime and subprime quality on the domestic 
market whereas they sold basically solely prime quality for export to the Union. During the production process, 
after several quality controls, the exporting producers deem ceramic tiles that are of less the perfect quality as 
“subprime” quality. These sub-standard tiles were sold at reduced prices. Thus, in order to make a fair comparison 
with the price to the Union, the Commission considered only domestic sales of prime quality for the calculation of 
the normal value. Following final disclosure, the Hitit Group asked for the inclusion of sub-standard tiles in its 
calculations on the grounds that volumes were significant and that it was possible to make adjustments for the 
differences between subprime versus prime quality products. The Commission dismissed the Hitit Group’s request, 
absent of any concrete proposal about how such an adjustment could have been made. Following final disclosure, 
the Hitit Group asked for the inclusion in its dumping calculation of one specific subcategory of products which 
had been considered by the Commission of subprime quality and was therefore, in line with the above 
considerations, excluded from the normal value calculation. The request was based on the grounds that the sales 
volumes of this category of products were significant and that these products concerned prime products. After due 
analysis of the data provided by the company, the Commission concluded that this subcategory of products 
qualified as prime products and it therefore accepted the Hitit Group’s request.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/28 
10.2.2023  

(218) The Commission then examined whether the domestic sales by each sampled exporting producer on its domestic 
market for each product type that is identical or comparable with a product type sold for export to the Union were 
representative, in accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales of a product type are 
representative if the total volume of domestic sales of that product type to independent customers during the 
investigation period represents at least 5 % of the total volume of export sales of the identical or comparable 
product type to the Union. The Commission established that the domestic sales of most product types were 
representative. For each of the three exporters, for some product types that were exported to the Union during the 
investigation period there were either no domestic sales at all, or the domestic sales of that product type were below 
5 % in volume and thus not representative.
(219) The Commission next defined the proportion of profitable sales to independent customers on the domestic market 
for each product type during the investigation period in order to decide whether to use actual domestic sales for the 
calculation of the normal value, in accordance with Article 2(4) of the basic Regulation.
(220) The normal value is based on the actual domestic price per product type, irrespective of whether those sales are 
profitable or not, if:
(a) the sales volume of the product type, sold at a net sales price equal to or above the calculated cost of production, 
represented more than 80 % of the total sales volume of this product type; and
(b) the weighted average sales price of that product type is equal to or higher than the unit cost of production.
(221) In this case, the normal value is the weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales of that product type during 
the investigation period.
(222) The normal value is the actual domestic price per product type of only the profitable domestic sales of the product 
types during the investigation period, if:
(a) the volume of profitable sales of the product type represents 80 % or less of the total sales volume of this type: or
(b) the weighted average price of this product type is below the unit cost of production.
(223) The analysis of domestic sales showed that over 60% of all domestic sales of the Vitra Group and over 70 % of all 
domestic sales of the Hitit Group and the Bien & Qua Group were profitable and that the weighted average sales 
price was higher than the cost of production. Accordingly, the normal value was calculated as a weighted average of 
the prices of all domestic sales during the investigation period or a weighted average of the profitable sales only.
(224) Following final disclosure, the Hitit Group contested the exclusion from the company’s domestic sales listing of 
certain sales labelled by the party as “export-registered sales” in view of their high volume. In view of elements on 
the file supporting the claim, the Commission accepted to include these sales volumes in the normal value 
calculations insofar as it could not be established that these sales were eventually exported.
(225) Where a product type was not sold in representative quantities on the domestic market, the Commission constructed 
the normal value in accordance with Article 2(3) and (6) of the basic Regulation. Where there were no or insufficient 
sales of a product type of the like product in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market, normal value was 
either constructed (because the domestic sales price of other sampled producers for that product type could not be 
disclosed in a meaningful manner without breaching the confidentiality of those producers) or the price of another 
exporter in the ordinary course of trade was used, and an appropriate non-confidential summary of that 
information was provided to the interested party concerned.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/29  

(226) Normal value was constructed by adding the following to the average cost of production of the like product of each 
cooperating sampled exporting producer during the investigation period:
(a) the weighted average SG&A expenses incurred by the cooperating sampled exporting producer on domestic 
sales of the like product, in the ordinary course of trade, during the investigation period; and
(b) the weighted average profit realised by the cooperating sampled exporting producer on domestic sales of the like 
product, in the ordinary course of trade, during the investigation period.
(227) For the product types not sold in representative quantities on the domestic market, the average SG&A expenses and 
profit of transactions made in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market for those types were added. For 
the product types not sold at all on the domestic market, the weighted average SG&A expenses and profit of all 
transactions made in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market were added.
(228) Following final disclosure, the Hitit Group stated that in the calculations certain PCNs had unusually high SG&A and 
the profit as compared to the company ratios. Considering the additional explanations provided by the party, 
including mistakes in its reporting, on an exceptional basis and in light of the specific situation of the case, for two 
PCNs the Commission constructed the normal value on company basis. Following the additional partial disclosure, 
the Hitit Group asked to disregard the production costs of some tiles, deemed to be unrepresentative. The 
Commission dismissed the claim, which was based in a new unverified dataset that could not be reconciled with 
verified data. The Commission disclosed its reasoning in more detail via an individual disclosure only to the party 
concerned for confidentiality reasons.
(229) Following final disclosure, the Vitra Group contested the inclusion of certain sales transactions in their normal value 
calculations as they would concern products manufactured outside Türkiye. After having duly assessed the 
supporting evidence, the Commission accepted the claim and it revised the calculations accordingly.
3.2.3. Export price
(230) The sampled exporting producers exported to the Union either directly to independent customers or through related 
importers.
(231) When the product concerned was exported directly to independent customers in the Union, the export price was the 
price actually paid or payable for the product concerned when sold for export to the Union, in accordance with 
Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation.
(232) When the product concerned was exported to the Union through a related importer, the export price was 
established on the basis of the price at which the imported product was first resold to independent customers in the 
Union, in accordance with Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation. In this case, adjustments to the price were made for 
all costs incurred between importation and resale, including SG&A expenses, and for profits accruing, based on the 
profit established in this investigation for unrelated importers (see recitals (429) and (430)).
(233) Following final disclosure, the Bien & Qua Group claimed that no deduction of SG&A and profit was warranted 
under Article 2(9) because the different entities in the group formed a single economic entity. The party stated that 
related companies acted as part of the producers’ exporting network, that all entities were economically controlled 
and managed by the same persons and that verification visits took place basically only at the premises of the 
producers. It alleged that the fact that related companies had unrelated suppliers and/or dealt with other products 
did not have any impact of the status of the single economic entity of the group. The Bien & Qua Group claimed as 
well that no deduction of SG&A and profit was warranted under Article 2(9) for a related trader located outside the 
Union with no importing functions.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/30 
10.2.2023  

(234) It is noted that, even if the group would have been a single economic entity (quod non, as concluded in the next 
section), Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation calls for the Commission to establish the export price on the basis of 
the price at which the imported product was first resold to independent customers in the Union. Given how the 
group organised sales into the Union, it would be unfair to treat in the same way sales that exporting producers 
channelled to the Union via related importers and direct sales to the Union. The Commission thus concluded that, 
when the product concerned was exported to the Union through a related importer, it was justified to perform 
adjustments for SG&A expenses and for profits accruing of the importer as established by Article 2(9) of the basic 
Regulation. As to the adjustments for a related trader outside the Union, the Commission clarified that, contrary to 
what the Commission had stated in the specific disclosure to the group, the legal basis for the adjustment was 
Article 2(10)(i), which is in line with the Commission’s practice in other investigations, justified even if the trader 
would have had no importing functions.
(235) Two of the sampled groups sold negligible volumes of tiles of subprime quality (see recital (217) to the Union. These 
sales were excluded from the volumes used to establish the export price. This approach was maintained after final 
disclosure, as noted in recital (217) in fine.
3.2.4. Comparison
(236) The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the sampled exporting producers on an 
ex-works basis.
(237) Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation. Adjustments were made for transport, insurance, handling, loading and ancillary costs, customs 
clearance and assimilated costs, commissions, discounts and rebates.
(238) Following final disclosure, the Hitit Group contested that fact that the Commission had rejected a credit cost 
adjustment. The Commission dismissed the claim. The Commission rejected the adjustment because the party failed 
to prove, as requested in Article 2(10) the basic Regulation, that the cost of any credit granted was indeed a factor 
taken into account in the determination of the prices charged.
(239) During the investigation period, the Hitit Group often exported ceramic tiles to the Union through related traders 
located in Türkiye. The Commission found that the functions of these related traders were similar to those of an 
agent as they received a mark-up for their services.
(240) The Bien & Qua Group’s related traders in Türkiye involved in sales to the Union received a mark-up for their services 
and had functions similar to those of an agent remunerated on a commission basis.
(241) The Commission disclosed further details of these findings via an individual disclosure only to the group concerned 
for confidentiality reasons.
(242) In light of the above, for all the (groups of) sampled exporting producers, for sales to the Union involving related 
parties in Türkiye, the export price was adjusted pursuant to Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation. The 
Commission deducted from the export price the SG&A costs of the related party(ies) and the profit described in 
recital (232) in fine.
(243) Following final disclosure, the Bien & Qua Group claimed that no deduction of SG&A and profit was warranted 
under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation because the different entities in the group formed a single economic 
entity.
(244) In the Commission’s view, several factors contradict the claim for a single economic entity for this group. The fact 
that the Bien & Qua Group entities were economically controlled and managed by the same persons and that 
verification visits took place mostly at the premises of the producers did not necessarily make the group a single 
economic entity. The Commission noted that the producers and related traders were based in different locations 
(with registered offices in places different from those of the related manufacturers) and that the related traders often 
had unrelated suppliers and/or dealt with products other than the product under investigation. In addition, there 
were sales departments in different entities, including the manufacturing entities, with different roles. Those related 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/31  

traders thus could not be said to be operating as the internal sales department of the related producers. These 
elements, and also taking into account the absence of sufficiently substantiated information allowing for a clear 
understanding of the arrangements amongst related entities in the Bien & Qua Group (see section 3.2.1.), prevented 
the Commission from accepting the Bien & Qua Group’s overall claim for a single economic entity.
(245) Following final disclosure, the Bien & Qua Group claimed that no deduction of SG&A and profit was warranted 
under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation because of the Commission’s approach in a recent investigation (18), 
according to which an adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) would be inconsistent with Article 2(1) of the basic 
Regulation.
(246) The Commission disagreed. First, the Commission noted that, indeed, Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, which 
determines the normal value, and Articles 2(8) and 2(9) of the basic Regulation, which determine the export price, 
are worded differently. The fact that export prices are established in a different manner than domestic prices does 
not in itself give rise to an unfair comparison. Moreover, the party compared incomparable factual situations. The 
investigation quoted by the Bien & Qua Group refers to a steel service center that was integrated in the production 
chain of the manufacturer. In light of its operations, that steel service center could not be considered to be carrying 
out functions similar to those of an agent acting on a commission basis within the meaning of Article 2(10)(i) of 
the basic Regulation. The situation was certainly different in the present investigation, with related traders not being 
integrated in the production chain of the Bien & Qua Group.
(247) Following final disclosure, the Bien & Qua Group claimed that, should the Commission reject the claim for a single 
economic entity, any deduction of SG&A and profit under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation was unfounded 
because it created unjustified differences and an unfair comparison of the normal value and the export price. The 
party added that its sales channels were the same on the domestic and export markets. This last statement 
contradicted other statements made by the party in early stages of the proceeding (19) and was found to be incorrect 
as in the domestic market, the main strategy of the Bien & Qua Group entities was, on the basis of a common price 
list, to keep a broad base of local dealers. Those dealers had access to the manufacturers’ ERP system automatically in 
order to place orders. In contrast, in the export market, the order-sale flow differed and manufacturers expected the 
group’s foreign trade companies to create added value starting from the common price list. The Commission found 
therefore that the deductions of SG&A and profit under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation were justified with 
respect to the export side of the group’s operations.
(248) Finally, the Commission also underlined that, although repeatedly requested, at no point in time during the 
investigation had the Bien & Qua Group provided clarity on the contractual arrangements that the producers had 
with the related entities active in selling their products domestically and on the export markets (see also recitals 
(209)). This lack of information prevented the Commissions from fully assessing the claim that the situation with 
regard to domestic and export sales would be exactly the same for those traders involved in both sales flows. In any 
event, the Bien & Qua Group never submitted any information concerning the level and quantification of the 
adjustment to the normal value; let alone any underlying evidence justifying a concrete level of adjustment.
(249) On that basis, the claim that any deduction of SG&A and profit under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation resulted 
in an unfair comparison between the normal value and the export price was rejected.
(250) Sampled exporting producers contested the deduction of the profit described in recital (232) in fine on the grounds 
that the scope of the activities of the parties related to the sampled exporting producers and importers in the Union 
were different. The Commission deemed that claim unfounded, as the level of the profit was reasonable and 
consistent with the target profit declared by one sampled group for a Turkish related trader.
(18) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/1395 of 11 August 2022 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of 
certain corrosion resistant steels originating in Russia and Türkiye (OJ L 211, 12.8.2022, p. 127), recital (126).
(19) See namely sections D and E of the open versions of the questionnaire replies submitted by the two manufacturers available in 
t22.001010.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/32 
10.2.2023  

(251) Some currency conversion issues were identified. Article 2(10)(j) of the basic Regulation provides that the date of 
sale should be the date of invoice, and that the date of contract, purchase order or order confirmation might be 
used if these more appropriately establish the material terms of sale. Consequently, given that during the 
investigation period the Turkish Lira’s exchange rate fluctuated (and overall fell significantly) strongly against the 
Euro (20), the Commission considered that the material terms of sale were settled at the time of the purchase order 
rather than at the date of invoice. The gap between the customer purchase order and the date of the invoice varied, 
but was around two months on average.
(252) Following the final disclosure, several parties complained that the above methodology artificially depressed export 
prices (increasing thus artificially dumping margins) and asked the Commission to consider that the material terms 
of sale were settled by the date of the invoice. Given the undeniable exchange rate fluctuation of the Turkish Lira 
against the Euro during the investigation period, the Commission deemed it unjustified to consider that the Union 
customer paid a price in euro higher than the one frozen at the time of the customer purchase order. The claim, 
unsupported, was dismissed. Following the final disclosure, the Hitit Group claimed that, should the Commission 
stick to its approach, it should then account for domestic inflation when establishing domestic prices. In the 
absence of any concrete proposal on how to proceed, the Commission dismissed the claim.
3.2.5. Dumping margins
(253) For the sampled cooperating exporting producers, the Commission compared the weighted average normal value of 
each type of the like product with the weighted average export price of the corresponding type of the product 
concerned, in accordance with Article 2(11) and (12) of the basic Regulation.
(254) Following final disclosure, the Vitra Group put forward calculation errors under the sections above. The 
Commission corrected those errors. The correction resulting in a definitive dumping margin below de minimis for 
the Vitra Group.
(255) On this basis, the definitive weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier 
price, duty unpaid, are as follows:
Company
Definitive dumping margin
Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
20,9 %
Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.
Bien Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.
4,8 %
Vitra Karo Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
0 %
(256) For the non-sampled cooperating exporting producers, the Commission calculated the weighted average dumping 
margin, in accordance with Article 9(6) of the basic Regulation. Therefore, that margin was established on the basis 
of the weighted average margins of the sampled exporting producers, at 9,2 %.
(257) For all other exporting producers in Türkiye, the Commission established the dumping margin on the basis of the 
facts available, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. To this end, the Commission determined the 
level of cooperation of the exporting producers. The level of cooperation is the volume of exports of the 
cooperating exporting producers to the Union expressed as proportion of the total imports from the country 
concerned to the Union in the investigation period, that were established on the basis of import statistics from 
Eurostat (Comext).
(20) From 1 euro = 7,884 Turkish Lira in July 2020, to 1 euro = 10,382 Turkish Lira in June 2021 (i.e., -32 % overall). Sources: The 
European Central Bank, DG Budget, Pacific Exchange Rate Service.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/33  

(258) The level of cooperation in this case is high because the exports of the cooperating exporting producers constituted 
around 90 % of the total imports in m2 during the investigation period. On this basis, the Commission found it 
appropriate to establish the dumping margin for non-cooperating exporting producers at the level of the sampled 
company with the highest dumping margin.
(259) The definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty unpaid, are as 
follows:
Company
Definitive dumping margin
Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
20,9 %
Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş. Bien 
Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.
4,8 %
Vitra Karo Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
0 %
Other cooperating companies
9,2 %
All other companies
20,9 %
(260) Several parties contested the high dumping margin established for non-sampled exporting producers and called for a 
reduction of its level via, for instance, ignoring the sampled company with the highest dumping margin, claimed to 
be unrepresentative. Following the additional partial disclosure, several parties added that establishing the duty for 
cooperating companies on the basis of findings for the two remaining exporting producers, which together 
accounted for less than 25% of total Turkish imports, was unfair, unobjective and/or contrary to the general 
principle of law of proportionality. Some parties stated that the fact that the basic Regulation read that the dumping 
margin for cooperating parties “shall not exceed” the weighted average dumping established with respect to the 
sampled parties gave the Commission the discretion to set their duty at a level lower level that the weighted average 
dumping established with respect to the sampled parties. In this respect, a party proposed a duty of 4,58 % for 
cooperating companies, i.e. an alternative calculation based on the weight of the two remaining exporters in the 
sample. The Commission recalled that it had established the duty rate for cooperating non-sampled exporting 
producers in light with its standard practice and according to the provisions in Article 9(6) of the basic Regulation 
and that it had no indication that the rate thus calculated was unrepresentative. The claim was therefore dismissed.
(261) The GOT contested the high dumping margins established as compared to other anti-dumping investigations against 
Türkiye. The Commission recalled that it has established the duty rates on an objective basis, according to the 
provisions in the basic Regulation. The claim was therefore dismissed.
4. INJURY
4.1. Definition of the Union industry and Union production
(262) As mentioned in recital (59), the ceramic tiles industry in the Union is highly fragmented. The like product was 
manufactured by over 300 producers in the Union during the investigation period. They constitute the ‘Union 
industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation.
(263) As further mentioned in recitals (59) and (60), the Union industry was divided into three categories of producers 
based on their annual production volume: small, medium-sized and large. Large producers represented 
approximately half of the total Union production (see recital (306)).
(264) The total Union production during the investigation period was established at around 1,2 billion m2. The 
Commission based the production figure on verified information provided by CET. CET collected production 
volumes from its individual members and national associations. Where such information was not available, CET 
supplemented the production statistics with data from PRODCOM (21), which where necessary were extrapolated 
for the first half of 2021 using the manufacturing index published by Eurostat (22).
(21) Available at https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/prodcom/data/database (last viewed 19 September 2022).
(22) Available at https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/view/sts_inpr_q/default/table?lang=en (last viewed 19 September 2022).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/34 
10.2.2023  

(265) As indicated in recital (67), the six sampled Union producers represented 6 % of the total Union production of the 
like product.
(266) Netto and Cortina provided numerous submissions throughout the investigation arguing against the existence of 
injury, dumping and Union interest in connection with Indian exports into the Union. These are addressed below. 
Furthermore, they claimed to be Union producers, labelling themselves the “Manufacturers from Białystok”. 
However, the investigation revealed that none of these companies had manufacturing activity in the Union; they 
imported ceramic tiles from their business partners in India. Therefore, they could not be considered part of the 
‘Union industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation.
4.2. Union consumption
(267) The Commission established the Union consumption by adding the sales of the Union industry, established on the 
basis of verified information as provided by CET, and the import volumes. The information on import volumes was 
sourced from Eurostat (Comext database).
(268) Union consumption developed as follows:
Table 1
Union consumption (m2) 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Total Union consumption
785 188 575
811 717 138
814 739 259
834 201 394
Index (2018=100)
100
103
104
106
Source: CET, Eurostat, sampled Union producers
(269) In the period considered, the Union consumption grew continuously. In the investigation period, it was 6 % higher 
than in 2018. The increase in the Union consumption was served mainly by imports.
4.3. Imports from the countries concerned
4.3.1. Cumulative assessment of the effects of imports from the countries concerned
(270) The Commission examined whether imports of ceramic tiles originating in the countries concerned should be 
assessed cumulatively, in accordance with Article 3(4) of the basic Regulation.
(271) Save for the Lavish Group and the Vitra Group, the margins of dumping established in relation to the imports from 
India and Türkiye were above the de minimis threshold laid down in Article 9(3) of the basic Regulation.
(272) The volume of non-dumped imports from the Lavish Group amounted to [6 – 9 %] of total imports from India in 
the investigation period, and around [40 – 45 %] of sampled imports. To establish whether the findings with regard 
to this company could be extended to all non-sampled imports, the Commission compared the prices of the Lavish 
Group to prices from the other two sampled exporting producers, non-sampled cooperating exporting producers 
and the average price of all Indian imports (excluding Lavish) from Eurostat. Based on the information submitted in 
the sampling forms, the Lavish Group’s average export price was [19 – 22 %] higher than the average export price of 
the more than 140 Indian exporters that submitted sampling replies. The total export volume of those companies 
accounted for 84% of all imports from India into the Union (see recital (207)). The group’s CIF export price was 
[7 – 9 %] higher than the average CIF price of all imports from India and [14 – 16 %] higher than those of the other 
two sampled exporting producers. Therefore, the Commission considered that it could not extend the findings of 
absence of dumping regarding the Lavish Group to the non-sampled exporting producers.
(273) The volume of non-dumped imports from the Vitra Group amounted to over 25 % of total imports from Türkiye in 
the investigation period, and over half of sampled imports. To establish whether the findings with regard to this 
company could be extended to all non-sampled imports, the Commission compared the prices of the Vitra Group 
to the weighted average price of non-sampled cooperating exporting producers as reported in the sampling form. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/35  

On this basis, the Vitra Group’s average export price was [18 – 20 %] higher than the average export price of 70 % of 
the volumes sold by non-sampled Turkish exporters that submitted sampling replies, for which the Commission had 
no normal value findings. The total export volume of the companies that submitted sampling replies accounted for 
around 90 % of all imports from Türkiye into the Union (see recital (258)). Therefore, the Commission considered 
that it could not extend the findings of absence of dumping regarding the Vitra Group to the non-sampled 
exporting producers. Following the additional partial disclosure, the GOT and some cooperating exporters 
contested this conclusion. Some Turkish cooperating exporters asked the Commission to extend the findings of 
absence of dumping regarding the Vitra Group to them (on the grounds that their sampling replies showed export 
prices equal or higher than those of the Vitra Group) and/or to non-sampled exporting producers. The Commission 
dismissed their claims on the grounds explained in section 3.2.5.
(274) The volume of imports from each of the countries concerned, excluding the volume of non-dumped imports from 
the Lavish Group and the Vitra Group, was not negligible within the meaning of Article 5(7) of the basic 
Regulation. Market shares in the investigation period were [3,5 – 3,6 %] for India and [4,6 – 4,7 %] for Türkiye (23).
(275) The conditions of competition between the dumped imports from India and Türkiye and between the dumped 
imports from the countries concerned and the like product were similar. More specifically, the imported products 
competed with each other and with the ceramic tiles produced in the Union because they were sold through the 
same sales channels and to similar categories of customers.
(276) Therefore, all the criteria set out in Article 3(4) of the basic Regulation were met and imports from India and Türkiye 
were examined cumulatively for the purposes of the injury determination.
(277) Following final disclosure, sixteen Indian exporting producers claimed that the cumulative assessment of imports 
from the countries concerned put India into a disadvantageous position. They pointed out that the prices of Indian 
imports grew over the period considered while the prices of Turkish imports decreased. The companies further 
submitted that the increased imports from India only supplemented the insufficient production volume by Union 
producers. Consequently, they claimed that by cumulating with Türkiye, the effects of Indian imports were 
overestimated. Following the additional partial disclosure, the GoI also opposed the cumulative assessment and 
recalled the criteria that allowed for cumulation.
(278) The Commission recalled that the volume of Indian imports more than doubled in the period considered. In view of 
a capacity utilisation, which would have allowed the Union industry to increase their production volume to satisfy 
the demand in the Union market, the Commission considered that the argument of insufficient production volumes 
by Union producers was not justified. Furthermore, while the Indian import price rose, it remained below the level of 
the Turkish import price. Finally, the Commission noted that all criteria laid down by Article 3(4) of the basic 
Regulation were met in this proceeding. With regard to the GoI’s statement, the Commission recalled that the 
criteria for cumulation were met as discussed in detail in recitals (271) to (276). Therefore, the Commission rejected 
the claim.
4.3.2. Volume and market share of the imports from the countries concerned
(279) The Commission established the volume of imports on the basis of Comext data. The market share of the imports 
was established by comparing those imports to the Union consumption determined in line with the explanation 
described in recital (267).
(280) Imports into the Union from the countries concerned developed as follows:
(23) As one of the sampled exporting producers in India and one of the sampled exporting producers in Türkiye were not dumping, their 
imports were deducted from the total imports and analysed as non-dumped imports. The Commission used the questionnaire replies 
of the Lavish Group and the Vitra Group to exclude their volumes and values from total exports. For the Vitra Group, the 
Commission excluded traded products not produced by the group on the basis of verified information for the investigation period. 
The regulation uses ranges for some figures because otherwise it would disclose confidential data from these sampled exporting 
producers, as the import statistics at CN level are publicly available.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/36 
10.2.2023  

Table 2
Import volume (m2) and market share 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
India – import volume
[13 000 000 – 
14 000 000]
[17 000 000 – 
18 000 000]
[22 000 000 – 
23 000 000]
[29 000 000 – 
30 000 000]
Index (2018=100)
100
134
167
220
India – market share
[1,7 – 1,8 %]
[2,2 – 2,3 %]
[2,7 – 2,8 %]
[3,5 – 3,6 %]
Index (2018=100)
100
130
161
207
Türkiye – import volume
[26 000 000
-27 000 000]
[31 000 000 – 
32 000 000]
[35 000 000 – 
36 000 000]
[38 000 000 – 
39 000 000]
Index (2018=100)
100
118
135
147
Türkiye – market share
[3,3 – 3,4 %]
[3,8 – 3,9 %]
[4,4 – 4,5 %]
[4,6 – 4,7 %]
Index (2018=100)
100
115
130
138
Total countries concerned – 
import volume
[39 000 000 – 
41 000 000]
48 000 000 – 
50 000 000]
[57 000 000 – 
59 000 000]
[67 000 000 – 
69 000 000]
Index (2018=100)
100
124
146
172
Total countries concerned – 
market share
[5 - 5,2 %]
[6 – 6,2 %]
[7,1 – 7,3%]
[8,1 – 8,3%]
Index (2018=100)
100
120
141
161
Source: Eurostat, sampled exporting producers
(281) Imports from the countries concerned as well as their market share increased steadily over the period considered. 
Imports from the countries concerned increased by 72 %, which translated into an increase of their market share by 
61 %. The Union market share of imports from the countries concerned was [8,1 – 8,3 %] during the investigation 
period, from [5 – 5,2 %] in 2018.
(282) Following final disclosure, the GoT argued that the increase in Turkish imports was of temporary nature and the 
additional imports merely replaced Union products as the Union production was temporarily interrupted due to the 
Covid-19-related sanitary measures adopted by the Member States. To support this claim, the GoT compared the 
volume of exports to the Union in first ten months of 2021 with the same period of 2022. The Turkish exports of 
ceramic tiles to the Union dropped by approximately 3,5 million m2. The GoT and Sogutsen Seramik reiterated this 
claim in their comments on the additional partial disclosure.
(283) In this respect, the Commission noted that imports from Türkiye increased continuously throughout the whole 
period considered while only 2020 was affected by the temporary interruption in the production by Union 
producers. In addition, the closing stock levels of the Union industry at the end of 2019 were more than sufficient 
to replace the reduction in production volumes. Finally, increasing Turkish exports of ceramic tiles did not respond 
to an increasing demand in the Union that could not be served by the Union producers. Rather, the Turkish ceramic 
tiles industry was under pressure of contracting domestic consumption of tiles during the period considered thus 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/37  

pushing for exports at what it described as competitive prices (24). The reduction in exports to the Union in 2022 
could not be accepted as a proof of the GoT’s claims as the exports to the Union might have dropped as a 
consequence of the ongoing investigation. Therefore, the Commission rejected the claim.
(284) The GoT also claimed that the percentage change in the market share between 2018 and the IP only appeared to be 
high (+42 %) because the market share of Turkish imports was low in the base year.
(285) First, the Commission noted that the evolution of the market share of dumped Turkish imports changed as the Vitra 
Group was found not to have been dumping after final disclosure. After excluding those volumes, the percentage 
change in market share of Türkiye amounted to 38%, constituting a significant increase of dumped imports. This 
increase in the market share is a fact established by the investigation, reflecting the actual change that took place. 
The Commission disagrees however that the market share of Türkiye was low in the base year. Throughout the 
period considered, Türkiye was the first third country supplier of the Union, constituting one third of all imports. 
The increase in terms of volume, amounting to around 12 000 000 square metres that were found to be dumped, 
was significant and had an impact in the performance of the Union industry. Therefore, the Commission rejected 
the claim.
(286) Following the additional partial disclosure, the GoT noted that the Turkish imports and their market share grew at a 
slower pace during the period considered after the Vitra Group was found not dumping. The GoT argued that the 
reduced market share of [4,6 – 4,7] % could not be considered injurious to the Union industry. Similarly, the GoI 
argued that the import volumes following the exclusion of the Vitra Group were too low to cause injury.
(287) The Commission recalled that the import volumes and their market share must be examined cumulatively for both 
countries concerned. The Commission considered that the market share of [8,1 – 8,3] %, which reflects dumped 
imports from the countries concerned, was sufficient to cause injury in the present case, in particular taking into 
account the structure of the Union industry and its fragmentation.
4.3.3. Prices of the imports from the countries concerned: price undercutting/price suppression
(288) The Commission established the prices of imports on the basis of Eurostat (Comext database). The verified values (at 
CIF level) and volumes of imports from the Lavish Group and the Vitra Group were deducted from the imports from 
India and Türkiye respectively for the purpose of this exercise.
(289) The weighted average price of imports into the Union from the countries concerned developed as follows:
Table 3
Import prices (EUR/m2) 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
India
4,35
4,79
5,12
5,49
Index (2018=100)
100
110
118
126
Türkiye
6,63
6,08
5,97
5,94
Index (2018=100)
100
92
90
90
(24) See Türkiye: ceramic tile exports continue to grow in 2020. Available at https://ceramicworldweb.com/en/economics-and-markets/ 
Türkiye-ceramic-tile-exports-continue-grow-2020 (last viewed 19 November 2022). See also The Turkish ceramic tile industry pushes 
on exports. Avalailable at https://ceramicworldweb.com/en/economics-and-markets/turkish-ceramic-tile-industry-pushes-exports (last 
viewed 19 November 2022).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/38 
10.2.2023  

Total countries concerned
5,86
5,61
5,64
5,75
Index (2018=100)
100
96
96
98
Source: Eurostat, sampled exporting producers
(290) The average import prices from the two countries concerned together remained stable over the period considered. 
The average import prices from Türkiye dropped by 10 % between 2018 and the investigation period, while the 
average import prices from India grew continuously and increased by 26 % between 2018 and the investigation 
period. The import prices from both countries were significantly lower than the prices and the cost of production 
of the sampled Union producers throughout the period considered (see table 7).
(291) The Commission determined the price undercutting during the investigation period by comparing:
(1) the weighted average sales prices per product type of the sampled Union producers charged to unrelated 
customers on the Union market, adjusted to an ex-works level; and
(2) the corresponding weighted average prices per product type of the imports from the sampled exporting 
producers from India and Türkiye to the first independent customer on the Union market, established on a cost, 
insurance, freight (‘CIF’) basis, with appropriate adjustments for customs duties and post-importation costs.
(292) The price comparison was made on a type-by-type basis for transactions at the same level of trade, duly adjusted 
where necessary, and after deduction of rebates and discounts. The result of the comparison was expressed as a 
percentage of the sampled Union producers’ theoretical turnover during the investigation period.
(293) The above comparison showed a weighted average undercutting margin on the Union market of between 42,5 % 
and 54,7 % for India and 33,8 % and 57,7 % for Türkiye, depending on the exporting producer. Competition for 
ceramic tiles is largely driven by prices, thus the undercutting margins are very significant. The Commission further 
noted that a minority of the Union industry’s sales were made through related parties and that, given the level of the 
SG&A expenses and profit of those related parties, the finding of undercutting for the cumulated imports would not 
be undermined even if the calculations had to be adjusted for those factors. Moreover, when excluding from that 
calculation the Union industry sales through related parties, which amounted to less than 25%, there was still 
significant undercutting, between 36 % and 54,7 % for India and 19,9 % to 61,7 % for Türkiye. Indeed, all Indian 
sampled cooperating exporters sold directly to the Union, and almost half of the imports made by the sampled 
cooperating exporters in Türkiye were also direct sales. Thus, under any alternative method, undercutting would 
remain significant.
(294) In addition, regardless of the findings about significant undercutting, the Commission found that because of the 
price suppression caused by the volumes and low prices of imports from India and Türkiye, the Union industry was 
unable to increase their prices to a level that would generate reasonable profits. The average price of imports from 
the countries concerned was below the cost of the sampled Union producers throughout the period considered (see 
table 3 in recital (289) and table 7 in recital (320)). Although the average sale price of the Union producers on the 
Union market increased by 19 % between 2018 and the IP, it remained below the cost of production throughout 
the period considered (see table 7 in recital (320)).
(295) The price suppression found at macro level was further confirmed by findings at company level. The injury 
elimination levels were determined per product type thus taking into account any potential differences between the 
product mix of imports and domestic sales of the Union industry. In the investigation period, the imports from the 
sampled exporting producers were underselling the domestic sales prices of the sampled Union producers by 92,7% 
to 168,7% with regard to India and by 80,8% to 150,6 % with regard to Türkiye (for details see section 6.1).
(296) Following final disclosure, the GoT pointed out that not only the import prices from Türkiye were below the cost of 
production of the Union producers but also the Union producers’ own prices in the Union market were lower than 
the cost of production. In addition, while the Turkish import price decreased during the period considered, the 
Union producers’ domestic price increased leading to improved profitability. In this respect, the GoT repeated its 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/39  

accusations of the Commission having manipulated the sample of Union producers towards companies with higher 
cost and worse financial indicators. Moreover, the GoT argued that companies included in the small producer 
category were boutique firms serving high-end market and working on tailor-made basis.
(297) The GoT reiterated its issues with the representativity of the Union producers’ sample and its effect on the 
comparison of prices after the additional partial disclosure.
(298) First, the Commission noted that the import prices from countries concerned must be examined on a cumulative 
basis, not individually. The average import price established on such basis remained rather stable, and significantly 
below the Union industry’s cost of production, over the period considered. The Union industry was pressured to 
navigate between extremely low import prices from the countries concerned and increasing cost of production. 
Although its domestic prices increased, the Union industry was not able to achieve a sustainable level of profit, 
barely breaking even in the IP.
(299) Second, the Commission recalled that the sample was selected based on objective criteria as described in recital (72) 
and (73). Producers sampled in the small producer category were companies offering collections of ceramic tiles to a 
wide range of customers, including to general public.
(300) Consequently, the Commission rejected all claims concerning price undercutting and price suppression.
4.4. Economic situation of the Union industry
4.4.1. General remarks
(301) In accordance with Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation, the examination of the impact of the dumped imports on the 
Union industry included an evaluation of all economic indicators having a bearing on the state of the Union industry 
during the period considered.
(302) As mentioned in section 1.4.1, sampling was used for the determination of possible injury suffered by the Union 
industry from the imports of ceramic tiles originating in India and Türkiye.
(303) For the injury determination, the Commission distinguished between macroeconomic and microeconomic injury 
indicators. The Commission evaluated the macroeconomic indicators on the basis of data contained in the 
questionnaire reply of CET relating to all Union producers, crosschecked where necessary with trade statistics 
available in Eurostat and the questionnaires from the sampled Union producers. The Commission evaluated the 
microeconomic indicators on the basis of data contained in the questionnaire replies from the six sampled Union 
producers. Both sets of data were duly verified or remotely crosschecked and found to be representative of the 
economic situation of the Union industry.
(304) The macroeconomic indicators are: production, production capacity, capacity utilisation, sales volume, market 
share, growth, employment, productivity, magnitude of the dumping margin, and recovery from past dumping.
(305) The microeconomic indicators are: average unit prices, unit cost, labour costs, inventories, profitability, cash flow, 
investments, return on investments, and ability to raise capital.
(306) Taking into account the fragmentation of the Union industry and the practice established in previous investigations 
concerning the same product, certain micro-economic indicators in each of the producers’ categories as defined in 
recital (59) were weighted using their share on the total Union production. As mentioned in recital (60), the 
structure of the industry has shifted towards large producers. Therefore, the relevant micro-indicators for large, 
medium-sized and small producers were weighted based on the ratio of 53:19:28, respectively. The weighting of 
results was used for sales prices, cost of production, profitability and return on investments, i.e. indicators that are 
not determined by simply adding up the results of the individual sampled Union producers but rather as a 
percentage or an average unit value, as well as for the average export price to unrelated customers of the sampled 
Union producers. The weighting ensured that the results of large producers were not overrepresented in the 
findings on injury and that the situation of small and medium-sized producers was properly accounted for.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/40 
10.2.2023  

4.4.2. Macroeconomic indicators
4.4.2.1. Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation
(307) The total Union production, production capacity and capacity utilisation developed over the period considered as 
follows:
Table 4
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Production volume (m2)
1 229 823 662
1 197 848 970
1 097 490 246
1 229 257 050
Index (2018=100)
100
97
89
100
Production capacity (m2)
1 455 493 248
1 438 233 198
1 441 597 966
1 440 337 389
Index (2018=100)
100
99
99
99
Capacity utilisation
84 %
83 %
76 %
85 %
Index (2018=100)
100
99
90
101
Source: CET
(308) During the period considered, the production volume, production capacity and capacity utilisation remained rather 
stable with year 2020 being a single outlier. The drop in production volume and consequently in capacity utilisation 
in 2020 was caused by the short-term interruptions in production following sanitary measures imposed by the 
Member States in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
4.4.2.2 Sales volume and market share
(309) The sales of the Union industry were established by subtracting export volumes from production volumes as 
provided by CET and applying an adjustment accounting for the stock variation. The stock variation adjustment 
was based on the complaint for years 2018 – 2020. For the investigation period, it was based on company-specific 
data collected by CET. Production volume was determined as explained in recital (264). The information on export 
volumes was sourced from Eurostat, and adjusted following evidence provided by CET (25).
(310) The Union industry’s sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 5
Sales volume and market share 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Sales volume on the Union 
market (m2)
707 146 016
724 457 535
717 890 003
726 565 367
Index (2018=100)
100
102
102
103
Market share
90,1 %
89,2 %
88,1 %
87,1 %
Index (2018=100)
100
99
98
97
Source: CET
(25) Corrected regarding volumes for the investigation period for Spain following evidence provided by the complainant upon verification 
of the macro-indicators questionnaire.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/41  

(311) The Union industry’s sales volume slightly increased between 2018 and 2019. It remained stable in 2020 in spite of 
the reduction in the Union industry’s production volume due to sales from stocks (traditionally high in the ceramics 
industry). Following a recovery in the construction sector in 2021 (26), Union industry’s sales volume slightly 
increased in the investigation period compared to 2020.
(312) The market share of the Union industry decreased in the period considered, from 90,1 % in 2018 to 87,1 % in the 
investigation period. The Union industry was not able to take full advantage of the expansion in Union 
consumption (see recital (268)).
4.4.2.3. Growth
(313) The Union industry was not able to realise the full potential from growth in the context of a growing Union 
consumption of ceramic tiles and the post-Covid-19 recovery of the construction market. It retained a rather stable 
level of production volume and booked only a slight increase in sales on the Union market.
4.4.2.4. Employment and productivity
(314) Employment and productivity developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 6
Employment and productivity 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Number of employees
55 544
55 089
54 470
54 412
Index (2018=100)
100
99
98
98
Productivity (m2/employee)
22 141
21 744
20 148
22 592
Index (2018=100)
100
98
91
102
Source: CET
(315) Union employment in the ceramic tiles sector had a slightly decreasing trend throughout the whole period 
considered. The number of employees involved in the ceramic tiles production was reduced by 2 % between 2018 
and the investigation period.
(316) Productivity slightly decreased between 2018 and 2019. It dropped by an additional 7 % in 2020 as a consequence 
of reduced production due to the Covid-19-related sanitary measures. The recovery of the production volume to its 
pre-Covid-19 level translated into an increase in productivity by 12 % between 2020 and the investigation period.
4.4.2.5. Magnitude of the dumping margin and recovery from past dumping
(317) With the exception of one sampled Indian exporting producer and one sampled Turkish producer, all dumping 
margins were significantly above the de minimis level. The impact of the magnitude of the actual margins of 
dumping on the Union industry was not negligible, given the volume and prices of imports from the countries 
concerned.
(318) Ceramic tiles have already been subject to anti-dumping investigations. The Commission found that, during the 
period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010, the situation of the Union industry was significantly affected by dumped 
imports of ceramic tiles originating in the People’s Republic of China (‘PRC’). Provisional measures were imposed on 
17 March 2011. (27) Definitive measures were imposed on 15 September 2011. (28)
(26) The European construction market to 2024. Available at https://www.ceramicworldweb.com/index.php/en/economics-and-markets/ 
european-construction-market-2024 (last viewed 20 September 2022).
(27) Commission Regulation (EU) No 258/2011 of 16 March 2011 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of ceramic tiles 
originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 70, 17.3.2011, p. 5).
(28) Implementing Regulation (EU) No 917/2011.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/42 
10.2.2023  

(319) Following an expiry review, the Commission extended the measures on 23 November 2017 (29) based on the 
likelihood of continuation of dumping and the likelihood of recurrence of injury. The investigation established that 
the Union industry recovered from past dumping from the PRC due to the measures in place. A second expiry 
review of these measures was initiated on 22 November 2022 (30).
4.4.3. Microeconomic indicators
4.4.3.1. Prices and factors affecting prices
(320) The weighted average unit sales prices of the sampled Union producers to unrelated customers in the Union, and its 
cost of production, developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 7
Sales prices and cost of production in the Union 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Average unit sales price in the 
Union on the total market 
(EUR/ m2)
8,84
9,42
10,44
10,52
Index (2018=100)
100
106
118
119
Unit cost of production (EUR/ 
m2)
9,79
11,08
11,31
10,77
Index (2018=100)
100
113
116
110
Source:Sampled Union producers
(321) The average unit sales price grew by 19 % between 2018 and the investigation period. The greatest increase was 
recorded in 2020. The average unit sales price remained below the unit cost of production throughout the period 
considered.
(322) Unit cost of production increased by 13 % between 2018 and 2019 and by an additional 3 % in 2020. In the 
investigation period, unit cost of production decreased in comparison to 2020 but remained above the level of 
2018 by 10 %.
4.4.3.2. Labour costs
(323) The average labour costs of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 8
Average labour costs per employee 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Average labour costs per 
employee (EUR)
37 923
39 432
37 316
39 568
Index (2018=100)
100
104
98
104
Source: Sampled Union producers
(324) Average labour cost per employee grew between 2018 and 2019 by 4 %. In 2020, following the Covid-19-related 
short-term interruptions of production, the cost decreased by 6 % compared to 2019 only to return to its 2019 
level in the investigation period. In the investigation period, average labour cost per employee increased by 4 % in 
comparison to 2018.
(29) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2179.
(30) Notice of initiation of an expiry review of the anti-dumping measures applicable to imports of ceramic tiles originating in the People’s 
Republic of China (OJ C 442, 22.11.2022, p. 3).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/43  

4.4.3.3. Inventories
(325) Stock levels of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 9
Inventories 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Closing stocks (m2)
28 561 422
27 030 762
24 368 066
24 436 327
Index (2018=100)
100
95
85
86
Closing stocks as a percentage 
of production
49%
51%
44%
39%
Index (2018=100)
100
104
91
79
Source: Sampled Union producers
(326) Closing stock decreased between 2018 and 2019 in absolute terms. Nevertheless, in the same period it increased by 
4 % (or 2 percentage points) when expressed as a percentage of production. Due to reduced production volumes and 
growing demand, the Union industry was able to reduce the volume of closing stock in absolute terms and when 
expressed as a percentage of production in 2020. As the production volume returned to its 2018 levels and the 
demand continued growing in the investigation period, closing stock expressed as percentage of production further 
dropped in the IP.
4.4.3.4. Profitability, cash flow, investments, return on investments and ability to raise capital
(327) Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments of the sampled Union producers developed over the 
period considered as follows:
Table 10
Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Profitability of sales in the 
Union to unrelated customers 
(% of sales turnover)
- 5,4 %
- 8,9 %
- 5,9 %
0,6 %
Index (2018=100)
- 100
- 166
- 110
10
Cash flow (EUR)
24 347 831
45 471 749
89 781 804
97 367 062
Index (2018=100)
100
187
369
400
Investments (EUR)
68 496 866
27 469 167
22 525 713
26 179 748
Index (2018=100)
100
40
33
38
Return on investments
1%
- 9%
- 10%
4%
Index (2018=100)
100
- 1 600
- 1 832
660
Source: Sampled Union producers
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/44 
10.2.2023  

(328) The Commission established the profitability of the sampled Union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of 
the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the Union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. The 
Union industry was lossmaking in the first three years of the period considered, and barely broke even in the 
investigation period. The loss increased between 2018 and 2019 from -5,4 % to -8,9 %. The sales price of the 
Union industry grew faster than the cost of production in 2020 (see table 7 in recital (320)). This resulted in a 
reduction of loss to -5,9 % in 2020. In the IP, the Union industry was able book a profit slightly above the 
breakeven point.
(329) The Union industry was able to achieve a minor profit in the IP although its average sales price to unrelated 
customers in the Union remained below the average cost of production (see table 7 in recital (320)). This was 
caused by the differences in product mix produced and product mix sold in the Union during the IP. The differences 
concerned not only the product types but also the time when the sold goods where produced (that is, whether they 
were sales from stock).
(330) The net cash flow is the ability of the Union producers to self-finance their activities. The net cash flow almost 
doubled between 2018 and 2019. It further considerably increased in 2020, and, at a more moderate pace, in the 
investigation period. The evolution of cash flow was to a large extent linked to the evolution of sales and therefore 
stocks. In 2018, one sampled Union producer recorded a large stock variation of finished goods, i.e. the company 
produced for stock. In 2019, this situation did not repeat thus turning a negative cash flow of this company into a 
positive one. This explained the majority of the cash flow increase between 2018 and 2019. The value of cash flow 
in 2020 and in the investigation period was linked to the fact that the sampled Union producers temporarily 
interrupted their production due to Covid-19-related lockdowns but continued selling from stock, which as shown 
in table 9 (see recital (325)) historically represented approximately half of their annual production quantity. The 
closing stock of finished goods decreased in 2020 and in the IP leading to a stock variation, which added value to 
the decreasing loss (2020) or the slight profit (IP).
(331) Following final disclosure, the GoT argued that since only one company could influence the results of cash flow, the 
sample was not representative.
(332) The cash flow presented in table 10 was a simple addition of all cash flow values of the sampled Union producers. 
This means that any events or evolution in one of the sampled companies influenced the final indicator no matter 
what share of Union production the sample would have represented. In recital (330), the Commission clarified the 
fluctuations in cash flow. Consequently, the claim made by the GoT was rejected.
(333) Investments decreased by 62 % in the period considered. The largest decrease of 60 % was recorded between 2018 
and 2019. The investments further decreased in 2020, to then increase in the investigation period (16 % compared 
to 2020). Investments were in most cases financed with cash flow and bank credits. The majority of investments 
were in maintaining capacity and replacement. Investments in research and development and innovation, that made 
up for 38 % of total investments by the sampled producers in 2018, decreased by 97 % in the period considered and 
made up for only 3 % of their investments in the investigation period.
(334) The sampled Union producers’ ability to raise capital was affected by the negative profitability. The sampled Union 
producers reported that the negative profitability prevented them from financing the necessary investments to 
exploit the growing market potential. One sampled Union producer reported that it had to downsize capacity due 
to its problems to raise capital. Some sampled Union producers are part of larger groups, making their ability to 
raise capital better than that of stand-alone companies in a similar financial situation. Yet their low profitability and 
prospects influence the decision of the parent companies to provide funds, that may decide to invest elsewhere.
(335) The return on investments is the profit in percentage of the net book value of investments. It decreased significantly 
in 2019 and 2020 to register an increase in the investigation period, following the trend in profitability.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/45  

4.5. Conclusion on injury
(336) In the period considered, the Union industry could not benefit from an expanding market, as shown by macro- 
indicators presenting negative or rather stable trends in a scenario of increasing demand. Production, production 
capacity, capacity utilisation or employment remained at the same level throughout the period considered. Union 
sales increased at a slower pace than consumption (3 % growth of Union sales in a market that grew 6 %). 
Consequently, the market share of the Union industry decreased from 90,1 % in 2018 to 87,1 % in the IP.
(337) Despite the increase of 19 % in its sales price, the Union industry could not raise prices in the Union to levels high 
enough to recover its costs during most of the period considered. As a result, throughout the period considered it 
was either lossmaking (-5,4 % in 2018, -8,9 % in 2019, -5,9 % in 2020) or just breaking even (0,6 % in the 
investigation period, influenced by the post-Covid-19 economic recovery, including increasing construction output 
as explained in recital (311), and where the Union industry sold significant quantities from stocks). The level of 
profitability achieved in the investigation period could not be considered sustainable. The Union industry could not 
increase their sales prices in the Union to a level that would ensure profitability levels necessary to cover its costs of 
production for most of the period considered and to exploit the growth in the Union market, for example by making 
new investments for expansion, research and development and for continuing to be active in developing segments 
like large slabs. Indeed, in this situation, investments decreased by 62 % and capacity remained constant, showing 
that the Union industry could not grow with the growing market.
(338) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the Union industry suffered material injury within the 
meaning of Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation.
(339) Following final disclosure, a number of interested parties commented on the injury findings and conclusions.
(340) Ceramika Netto expressed concerns about the validity of data the Commission used for its findings on injury. In 
particular, the company submitted the financial statements for 2021 of three Polish producers of ceramic tiles and 
news articles summarising the performance of the ceramics industry in Italy and Spain in 2021.
(341) CGCSA claimed that the Union producers were willing to provide information for the full year 2021 and if the 
Commission examined that information, it would have found that the injury stemmed solely from the effects of the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
(342) The Commission noted that the investigation was conducted on information, that was verified on-spot, submitted by 
sampled Union producers for the IP and the period considered. Ceramika Netto did not submit any comments on the 
sample of Union producers within the applicable deadline. Any information concerning the full year 2021 would 
cover a post-IP period and therefore could not be used for the determination of injury. In addition, the Commission 
is not aware of any proactive offers by the Union industry to submit post-IP data. Consequently, the Commission 
dismissed the claims by Ceramika Netto and GCSCA.
(343) The GoI, GoT, GCSCA, the Turkish company Sogutsen Seramik and sixteen Indian exporting producers claimed that 
the Union industry did not suffer material injury. In this respect, the GoI, GoT, GCSCA and sixteen Indian exporting 
producers submitted that most macroeconomic and microeconomic indicators remained stable or improved during 
the period considered.
(344) For example, the sixteen companies pointed out that production volume, capacity utilisation and productivity 
substantially increased in the IP in comparison to 2020, and that closing stocks substantially decreased in the IP in 
comparison to 2018. In addition, the Indian exporting producers argued that despite a reduction in market share of 
the Union industry by 3 percentage points in the period considered, it maintained high market shares over the whole 
period considered. The companies referred to the preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union 
(‘the Court’) in eurocylinder systems AG v Hauptzollamt Hamburg-Stadt (31). The Court ruled that the Council 
committed a manifest error when it concluded that a loss of five percentage points market share was an indicator of 
material injury as the Union industry maintained high market share and experienced an increase in sales volumes 
and sales prices.
(31) Judgment of the Court of 4 February 2021, eurocylinder systems AG v Hauptzollamt Hamburg-Stadt, Case C-324/19, ECLI:EU: 
C:2021:94, paragraphs 49 and 52.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/46 
10.2.2023  

(345) The GoT submitted that indicators such as profitability, production, sales volume, Union sales price, capacity 
utilisation, productivity, inventories, cash flow and return on investments experienced a temporary negative 
evolution in 2020, a year affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, but returned to a positive trend in the IP. 
Furthermore, the GoT argued that a few indicators showing negative trends over the period considered were not 
sufficient to conclude on the existence of material injury.
(346) Similarly, the GoI claimed that there was no volume injury as the market share of Indian imports was small 
throughout the period considered. The GoI also noted that despite losing market share, the Union industry 
maintained a high market share. In addition, its sales volume increased and its domestic sales price increased at a 
higher pace than cost of production thus leading to improved profitability.
(347) GCSCA also argued that many macroeconomic indicators, such as production volume and capacity utilisation, sales 
volume, high market share, maintained neutral or positive trends over the period considered. With regard to 
microeconomic indicators, the association pointed out that the Union domestic sales price grew at a higher pace 
than the cost of production of the Union industry.
(348) The Commission noted that the indicators must be examined not only in the light of their evolution but also with 
regard to the achieved levels. The Commission maintained that the Union industry suffered material injury due to 
increasing volumes of dumped imports from India and Türkiye. Although the Union domestic price grew faster 
than the Union industry’s cost of production, the Union industry was lossmaking in almost every year of the period 
considered, only being able to reach the break even point in the IP. In addition, the Union industry lost market share, 
despite an increase in consumption.
(349) Furthermore, the parties referred to the Commission’s findings concerning certain indicators (production volume, 
capacity utilisation) that were negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 but recovered in the IP. The 
parties must, however, also recognise that the pandemic led to the improvement of certain indicators, e.g. closing 
stocks volume and cash flow. Subsequently, the Commission could not agree to the parties describing the change in 
the IP as substantially improved in comparison to the previous period since they already agreed that the especially 
poor performance in those indicators in 2020 was caused by the pandemic.
(350) With regard to the preliminary ruling of the Court in eurocylinder systems AG v Hauptzollamt Hamburg-Stadt, the 
Commission noted that each case must be assessed on its own merits. In the investigation concerned by the Court 
ruling, the Union industry experienced an increase in sales volume and sales prices while maintaining high market 
share and double-digit profits over the period considered. (32) The situation in the present case is considerably 
different. Although the Union producers’ sales price increased and their sales volume also slightly grew, the 
companies remained lossmaking in almost all years of the period considered.
(351) Consequently, the Commission dismissed the claims described in recitals (343) to (347).
5. CAUSATION
(352) In accordance with Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the dumped imports 
from the countries concerned caused material injury to the Union industry. In accordance with Article 3(7) of the 
basic Regulation, the Commission also examined whether other known factors could at the same time have injured 
the Union industry. The Commission ensured that any possible injury caused by factors other than the dumped 
imports from the countries concerned was not attributed to the dumped imports. These factors are imports from 
other third countries including non-dumped imports from India, the export performance of the Union industry, the 
evolution of demand, the evolution of the cost of production of the Union industry and the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic.
(32) Commission Regulation (EC) No 289/2009 of 7 April 2009 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain seamless 
pipes and tubes of iron or steel originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 94, 8.4.2009, p. 48).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/47  

5.1. Effects of the dumped imports
(353) The volume of imports from the countries concerned increased by 72 % during the period considered, from 
[39 000 000 – 42 000 000] m2 in 2018, representing a market share of [5 – 5,2] %, to [67 000 000 – 69 000 000] 
m2 in the IP, representing a market share of [8,1 – 8,3 ] % during the IP. The increase of imports from the countries 
concerned (72 %) significantly outpaced both the increase of consumption in the Union market (6%) and the increase 
of Union sales (3 %). The more than 3 percentage points increase in the market share of dumped imports paralleled a 
loss of 3 percentage points in the market share of the Union industry, from 90,1 % in 2018 to 87,1 % in the 
investigation period.
(354) This gain in market share by the dumped imports was therefore at the expense of the Union industry that could not 
benefit from the continuously increasing consumption.
(355) The increase in imports was based on dumped, low prices. As established in recital (293), the prices from the 
sampled exporting producers in the Union market significantly undercut those of the Union industry, at least by 36 
% for India and 19,9 % for Türkiye, in the investigation period, and in any event were significantly lower than the 
Union industry’s costs of production.
(356) In addition to the findings of significant undercutting during the investigation period, the average import prices from 
the countries concerned were also much lower than those of the Union industry throughout the period considered. 
The price difference (based on Eurostat average figures) between the dumped imports and the prices of the Union 
industry was significant, and increased during the period considered, going from 2,98 EUR/m2 in 2018 to 4,77 
EUR/m2 in the investigation period, an increase of 60 %.
(357) Due to the dumped imports, whose prices were also below the cost of production of the Union industry throughout 
the period considered, thereby causing significant price suppression, and to avoid further losing market share, the 
Union industry could not increase its prices in the Union above its cost of production during most of the period 
considered (see table 7 in recital (320)). It only barely broke even in the investigation period, which coincided with 
the post-Covid-19 recovery and with an increase in construction output (see recital (311)). In any event, the Union 
industry’s level of profit in the investigation period was very low (0,6 %) and cannot be considered sustainable (see 
recital (337)). The dumped imports also outpaced Union sales in the post-Covid-19 recovery: while the Union 
industry’s sales increased by 1,2 % in the investigation period compared to 2020, the dumped imports increased by 
17,5 %.
(358) It follows from the above that the increase of dumped imports at low prices led to lost sales and prevented the Union 
industry from reaching reasonable levels of profit. The Commission therefore concluded that there is a causal link 
between the dumped imports from the countries concerned and the injury suffered by the Union industry.
5.2. Effects of other factors
5.2.1. Imports from third countries
(359) The volume of imports from other third countries developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 11
Imports from third countries 
Country
2018
2019
2020
Investigation 
period
Non-dumped 
imports from India 
and Türkiye
Volume (m2)
[8 000 000 –
10 000 000]
[10 000 000 –
12 000 000]
[13 000 000 –
15 000 000]
[14 000 000 –
16 000 000]
Index 
(2018=100)
100
132
160
173
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/48 
10.2.2023  

Market share
[1 – 1,2] %
[1,4 – 1,6] %
[1,6 – 1,8] %
[1,7 – 1,9] %
Average price 
(EUR/ m2)
[6,1 – 6,4]
[6,4 – 6,7]
[6,5 – 6,8]
[6,4 – 6,7]
Index 
(2018=100)
100
105
106
105
Ukraine
Volume (m2)
5 641 163
5 104 655
4 890 265
5 546 233
Index 
(2018=100)
100
90
87
98
Market share
0,7 %
0,6 %
0,6 %
0,7 %
Average price  
(EUR/m2)
4,22
4,44
4,37
4,55
Index 
(2018=100)
100
105
103
108
China
Volume (m2)
8 534 901
6 739 211
6 488 766
4 836 581
Index 
(2018=100)
100
79
76
57
Market share
1,1 %
0,8 %
0,8 %
0,6 %
Average price  
(EUR/m2)
5,11
5,18
4,81
4,95
Index 
(2018=100)
100
101
94
97
United Arab 
Emirates
Volume (m2)
3 443 921
3 220 877
3 448 721
3 194 145
Index 
(2018=100)
100
94
100
93
Market share
0,4 %
0,4 %
0,4 %
0,4 %
Average price  
(EUR/m2)
9,29
7,30
6,57
6,93
Index 
(2018=100)
100
78
71
75
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/49  

Others (excluding 
Countries 
concerned)
Volume (m2)
12 091 485
11 671 162
10 263 420
11 036 430
Index 
(2018=100)
100
97
85
91
Market share
1,5 %
1,4 %
1,3 %
1,3 %
Average price  
(EUR/m2)
6,68
6,24
6,96
7,15
Index 
(2018=100)
100
105
106
107
Total of all third 
countries except the 
countries 
concerned, 
including non- 
dumped imports 
from India and 
Türkiye )
Volume (m2)
[38 000 000 – 
40 000 000]
[37 000 000 – 
39 000 000]
[38 000 000 – 
40 000 000]
[39 000 000 – 
41 000 000]
Index 
(2018=100)
100
100
101
103
Market share
[4,8 – 5] %
[4,6 – 4,8] %
[4,7 – 4,9] %
[4,7 – 4,9] %
Average price  
(EUR/m2)
[6 – 6,3]
[5,9 – 6,2]
[6 – 6,3]
[6,2 – 6,5]
Index 
(2018=100)
100
98
100
103
Source: Eurostat, sampled exporting producer
(360) Imports from all third countries except the countries concerned but including the non-dumped imports from India 
and Türkiye (hereinafter ‘all third countries’) increased by 3 % over the period considered. Imports from other third 
countries amounted to [36 – 38] % of total imports into the Union in the investigation period (down from [48 – 
50] % of imports in 2018). Their share of the Union market decreased year-on-year, going from [4,8 – 5] % in 2018 
to [4,7 – 4,9] % in the investigation period. With the exception of non-dumped imports from the countries 
concerned, and China in year 2018, no other single country achieved a market share of more than 1 % throughout 
the period considered.
(361) The average price of imports from all third countries first decreased by 2 % from 2018 to 2019, then slowly 
increased from 2020 to reach a level 3% higher in the investigation period compared to 2018. The prices of those 
imports were higher than the import prices of dumped imports from the countries concerned throughout the 
period considered. The biggest difference was registered in the IP, when the average price from all third countries 
was [8-12] % higher than the average import price of dumped imports from the countries concerned.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/50 
10.2.2023  

(362) Non-dumped imports from the countries concerned increased by 73% over the period considered, from [8 000 000
– 10 000 000] square metres in 2018 to [16 000 000 – 18 000 000] in the investigation period. Their market share 
increased from [1 – 1,2] % in 2018 to [1,7 – 1,9] % in the investigation period. The prices of those imports were 
higher than the import prices of dumped imports from the countries concerned throughout the period considered. 
In 2019, 2020 and the investigation period they were at least 14% higher than the average import price of dumped 
imports from the countries concerned. The average import prices were below those of the Union industry 
throughout the period considered. Therefore, these imports and their increase had a negative impact in the 
performance of the Union industry.
(363) Imports from all third countries except the countries concerned but including the non-dumped imports from India 
and Türkiye might therefore have contributed to a limited extent to the material injury suffered by the Union 
industry. However, given that their average prices are higher than those of dumped imports from the countries 
concerned, that the volumes are smaller and did not gain market share in the period considered, those imports, 
both collectively and individually, do not attenuate the causal link established with the dumped imports from India 
and Türkiye.
(364) Following the additional partial disclosure, the GoT argued that the Commission’s conclusions concerning the effect 
of non-dumped imports from the countries concerned and from all third countries on the situation of the Union 
industry were biased as the Commission found that the non-dumped imports from the countries concerned had a 
negative impact on the performance of the Union industry while the imports from all third countries contributed to 
the material injury only in a limited extent, in particular since the imports form all third countries reached a volume 
four times higher than non-dumped imports from the countries concerned.
(365) The Commission noted that recitals (362) and (363) had to be read together. Taking into account their volumes and 
prices, both, the non-dumped imports from the countries concerned and other third country imports, had a 
negative impact on the Union industry’s performance, but not of a magnitude to attenuate the causal link. As 
explained in recital (360), the category “all third countries” includes also the non-dumped imports from India and 
Türkiye. Consequently, the Commission rejected the claim.
(366) Following the additional partial disclosure, the GoI argued that the imports from India were in terms of volume and 
prices similar to the imports from third countries (excluding the non-dumped imports from the countries 
concerned). The Commission, nevertheless, did not investigate those third countries. According to the GoI, this 
proved that the Union industry did not suffer injury due to dumped imports from India but due to high cost of 
production. In addition, the GoI pointed out that since the profitability of the Union industry improved as the 
Indian imports increased, there was not causal link between the dumped imports from India and the material injury 
suffered by the Union industry.
(367) The Commission recalled that it examined the impact of imports from India and Türkiye that were found to be made 
at dumped prices. The investigation was initiated based on sufficient evidence of dumping provided by the 
complainant. As no such evidence was submitted with regard to other third countries, the Commission did not 
investigate those countries and therefore, could not make any findings of dumping in this investigation. The 
Commission acknowledged that the imports from all third countries contributed to the material injury in a limited 
manner (see recital (363)). As far as it concerns the import volumes, the Commission analysed the requirements for 
a cumulative assessment of dumped imports and found that all requirements were met in this investigation. Thus, 
the imports from India could not be considered as negligible. Finally, as explained in recital (298), although the 
Union industry was able to increase its prices and by doing so improve its financial performance, it was only able to 
achieve profitability levels slightly above the breakeven point in the IP. In addition, as explained in recitals (293) to 
(295), the Commission found substantial undercutting and price suppression caused by the dumped imports from 
India and Türkiye. Therefore, the claim that the imports from India could not, in terms of volumes and prices, cause 
material injury to the Union industry was rejected.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/51  

5.2.2. Export performance of the Union industry
(368) The Commission examined the evolution of exports and prices for the whole EU Industry based on Eurostat’s 
Eurostat data (33).
Table 12
Exports from the Union 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Export volume (m2)
470 484 212
470 086 762
447 819 312
514 369 625
Index (2018=100)
100
100
95
109
Average price (EUR/m2)
8,58
8,53
8,78
8,77
Index (2018=100)
100
99
102
102
Source: CET, Eurostat
(369) According to Eurostat data, Union exports of ceramic tiles increased by 9 % during the period considered. Exports 
remained stable the first two years of the period considered to then decrease by 5 % between 2019 and 2020, then 
increase in the investigation period, namely 15 % year-on-year. The average price of exports remained rather stable 
throughout the period considered, registering an increase of 2 %.
(370) Interested parties claimed, based on the data in the complaint, that the export performance of the Union industry 
was a cause of injury, due to the decline in 2020 and the fact that the average export price was lower than the cost 
of production of the complainants.
(371) Such comparison was incorrect. First, Eurostat data included all Union exports (including those to related customers 
outside the Union) while the cost of production of the complainants represented only part of Union exports. Second, 
the investigation period covered a different period than the one used in the complaint.
(372) In any case, the Commission also analysed the export performance of the Union sampled producers, based on 
verified data. The volume and average price of exports to unrelated customers of the sampled Union producers 
developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 13
Export performance of the sampled Union producers 
2018
2019
2020
Investigation period
Export volume (m2)
6 906 051
7 483 379
7 105 324
9 669 741
Index (2018=100)
100
108
103
140
Average price (EUR/m2)
13,60
13,81
11,63
11,24
Index (2018=100)
100
102
85
83
Source: Sampled Union producers
(33) Corrected regarding volumes for the investigation period for Spain following evidence provided by the complainant upon verification 
of the macro-indicators questionnaire.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/52 
10.2.2023  

(373) The volume of exports of the sampled Union producers increased by 40 % during the period considered. The biggest 
increase was registered in the investigation period, namely 36 % year-on-year (i.e. when compared to 2020). The 
average price of exports from the sampled Union producers decreased by 17 % over the period considered. It first 
increased slightly, then went down in 2020 and the investigation period. Despite this decrease, the average export 
price of the sampled Union producers was above their cost of production throughout the investigation period.
(374) Given its positive evolution, the export performance of the sampled Union producers or of the whole Union 
industry could not have contributed to the material injury suffered by the Union industry.
(375) Following final disclosure, the GoT claimed that the loss in market share by Union industry could not be attributed to 
dumped imports from the countries concerned. The party pointed out the growing export volume of the Union 
industry and argued that the loss of market share was caused by the Union industry prioritising exports over 
domestic sales. The GoT reiterated this claim after the additional partial disclosure.
(376) The Commission disagreed. The volume of closing stock and the level of capacity utilisation of the Union industry 
would have enabled the Union industry to increase its export volumes and domestic sales volumes at the same time. 
Therefore, the improved export performance of the Union industry over the period considered could not justify the 
loss of the Union industry’s market share, that was due to the increasing volumes of dumped imports that undercut 
and suppressed the Union industry’s prices, as concluded in recital (358). The Commission rejected the claim.
5.2.3. Consumption
(377) Some parties claimed that the global decline in ceramic tiles consumption was a cause of injury to the Union 
industry. As established in recitals (267) to (269) however, consumption increased steadily in the Union throughout 
the period considered. Therefore, it cannot have contributed to the material injury suffered by the Union industry.
5.2.4. Evolution of the cost of production
(378) Interested parties submitted that increases in costs of raw materials, energy, transport and CO2 emission allowances 
were a cause of injury for the Union industry.
(379) The cost of production of the Union industry was higher than its sales price, and it increased, for most of the period 
considered. Therefore, the Union industry registered heavy losses throughout the period considered. However, as 
explained in recital (357), the Union industry could not increase its prices in the Union above its cost of production 
during most of the period considered, or made sustainable levels of profit, to avoid losing more market share to the 
dumped imports at low prices.
(380) Following final disclosure, the GoI, GoT and sixteen Indian exporting producers claimed that the Commission failed 
to examine other factors, such as increasing cost of raw materials, energy, CO2 allowances and labour.
(381) The Commission examined the verified information of the sampled Union producers and found that the cost of raw 
materials (per m2) increased only slightly (by approximately 4 %) over the period considered. The cost of energy and 
labour per m2 actually decreased. Compliance cost per m2 remained rather stable over the period considered. In 
addition, as explained in recital (379), the Union industry suffered losses to its inability to increase prices under the 
price pressure from imports from India and Türkiye. Consequently, the claim was dismissed.
5.2.5. Covid-19 effects
(382) Interested parties claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic was a cause of injury for the Union industry due to 
production shutdowns. They further claimed that this was the reason behind their cost increases, given their 
reliance on imports of raw materials and the supply chain disruptions created by the Covid-19 pandemic. Finally, 
some interested parties claimed that the fact that the Union industry did not lay off workforce despite the 
shutdowns was also a cause for the cost increase and amounted to self-inflicted injury.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/53  

(383) On the supply side, during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, in the first half of 2020, most Union producers 
had to temporarily shut down their production facilities. This was clearly reflected in the production volume, which 
dropped by 11 % in 2020 when compared to 2018 and by 8 % when compared to 2019. However, production 
recovered in the IP (see Table 4).
(384) The Commission also analysed the impact on the sampled Union producers. This analysis confirmed the Union-wide 
findings. The measures taken because of the Covid-19 pandemic varied between producers located in different 
Member States. Four of the sampled Union producers had to shut down their production facilities in the first half of 
year 2020 (March and April), while two of them did not close but reduced production. All sampled Union producers 
reported a decrease in production during the shutdowns when compared to the same period of previous year, but 
production recovered in the IP.
(385) Despite the closures, the cost of production only went up slightly (+2 %) in 2020 as compared to 2019 (see recital 
(320)). One sampled Union producer reported that, in the second half of 2020, it benefited from low costs of raw 
materials and of all production factors, especially energy and transport costs, due to the unusual availability of 
labour, services and supplies. Any supply chain impact was thus negligible. Regarding the workforce, the measures 
taken by the sampled producers varied in different Member States, from reducing salaries, putting employees on 
short time work, use of redundancy funds or vacation time, or protection schemes that led to savings.
(386) On the demand side, as seen in recital (268), the Union market kept growing during the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
trends of consumption, imports and Union industry sales in the Union increased steadily across the period 
considered, with imports from the countries concerned growing at much faster paces than the sales of the Union 
industry and consumption, also in 2020. The Union industry was able to maintain its volume of sales in 2020, 
despite the temporary factory closures, by selling from stocks, as this particular industry is characterised by very 
high levels of stocks (around 50 % of production). Accordingly stocks registered a reduction in 2020 and in the IP 
(see recital (325)).
(387) Therefore, as demand remained stable and the Union industry was able to resume production fast after the closures 
and use its stock to maintain its sales volume, the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the Union industry were 
limited and did not attenuate the causal link established with the dumped imports from India and Türkiye.
(388) Following final disclosure, the GoI, GoT, CGCSA, Sogutsen Seramik and Yurtbay Seramik reiterated that the inury 
was caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and claimed that the Commission did not examine its impact sufficiently. 
CGCSA submitted that the Commission failed to collect quantitative data to examine the effects of Covid-19.
(389) The claim that injury was caused by the Covid-19 pandemic was already addressed in recitals (383) to (387). The 
Commission examined the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the performance of the Union industry both on 
the supply side and the demand side, both at the level of the whole Union industry and also at the level of the 
sampled Union producers (see recitals (384) and (385)). The Commission collected data on all injury indicators and 
examined the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on that basis. It acknowledged that the pandemic had a clear 
impact on the production volumes of the Union industry, that recovered quickly, and on their level of stocks, but a 
negligible one on sales volume, costs, imports and consumption. Moreover, the Commission collected additional 
information on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic from the sampled Union producers, such as the duration of 
the closures for those companies that closed or the measures they took regarding the workforce. Interested parties 
have not provided any new evidence or arguments that could change these conclusions, nor any evidence of what 
other data the Commission should have collected or analysed. Consequently, the Commission dismissed these 
claims.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/54 
10.2.2023  

5.3. Conclusion on causation
(390) The Commission established a causal link between the injury suffered by the Union industry and the dumped 
imports from India and Türkiye. The increase of dumped imports from the countries concerned coincided with a 
decrease of the Union industry’s market share in the Union market. Most of the growing demand in the Union was 
taken up by the imports. The increase of imports from the countries concerned was based on low, dumped prices 
that were below the cost of production of the Union industry, significantly undercut the Union industry sales prices 
in the Union market and prevented the Union industry from setting prices at sustainable levels necessary to achieve 
reasonable profit margins.
(391) The Commission distinguished and separated the effects of all known factors on the situation of the Union industry 
from the injurious effects of the dumped imports. The effect of non-dumped imports, of the export performance of 
the Union industry, of the evolution of the Union consumption, of the evolution of the Union industry’s cost of 
production and of the Covid-19 pandemic on the Union industry’s negative performance concerning its market 
share and profitability was only limited.
(392) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the dumped imports from the countries concerned 
caused material injury to the Union industry and that the other factors, considered individually or collectively, did 
not attenuate the causal link between the dumped imports and the material injury.
(393) Following final disclosure, the GoI pointed out with regard to the conclusions on causation that the Union industry 
experienced losses already in 2018 when Indian imports were negligible. In addition, as the Indian imports grew, the 
profitability situation of the Union producers improved too. Therefore, according to the GoI, there was no causal 
link between Indian imports and the injury suffered by the Union industry.
(394) The Commission noted that the impact of imports from India and Türkiye was assessed cumulatively, not 
individually. In any case, the investigation established that Indian dumped imports more than doubled from 2018 
to the investigation period. This increase was based on dumped prices that were below the cost of production of the 
Union industry throughout the period considered. Faced with this increase, the Union industry both lost sales to the 
dumped imports and, to avoid losing further sales, could not set its prices at levels necessary to achieve reasonable 
profit margins. Therefore, there is a clear causal link between the dumped imports and the injury suffered by the 
Union industry. Consequently, the Commission dismissed the claim.
(395) Following the analysis of comments received after final disclosure, the Commission confirmed its findings 
concerning causation.
6. LEVEL OF MEASURES
(396) To determine the level of the measures, the Commission examined whether a duty lower than the margin of 
dumping would be sufficient to remove the injury caused by dumped imports to the Union industry.
6.1. Injury margin
(397) The injury would be removed if the Union industry were able to obtain a target profit by selling at a target price in 
the sense of Articles 7(2c) and 7(2d) of the basic Regulation.
(398) In accordance with Article 7(2c) of the basic Regulation, for establishing the target profit, the Commission took into 
account the following factors: the level of profitability before the increase of imports from the countries under 
investigation, the level of profitability needed to cover full costs and investments, research and development (R&D) 
and innovation, and the level of profitability to be expected under normal conditions of competition. Such profit 
margin should not be lower than 6 %.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/55  

(399) Neither the complainant nor any of the sampled Union producers made any substantiated claim regarding the level 
of the target profit.
(400) The complaint used a target profit of 6 %, the minimum provided for in Article 7(2c) of the basic Regulation, and 
provided no evidence that it should be set at a higher level. The complaint merely stated that the complainant 
expected the underselling calculation during the investigation to be based on a higher target profit reflecting 
significantly higher environmental costs expected in the Union during the period of application of the measures. 
However, future environmental costs are not a factor for the determination of the target profit according to Article 
7(2c) of the basic Regulation. Indeed, these costs are reflected in the final target price according to Article 7(2d) of 
the basic Regulation.
(401) Only two sampled Union producers commented on the appropriate level of the target profit. One of them proposed 
using a target profit of [6 – 7 %], the profit it achieved in 2018, when the presence of the dumped imports was 
lower. The second sampled Union producer stated it was unable to provide an answer as it had been competing 
with imports from India and Türkiye throughout the period considered and even before.
(402) Given the fragmentation of the EU industry, the profit of a single sampled Union producer in a given year is not 
sufficient basis to establish the target profit for the whole Union industry. Moreover, imports from the countries 
concerned were already present in the market in 2018 at prices below the Union industry’s cost of production, and 
the Union industry was loss-making.
(403) Indeed, as shown in Tables 2 and 10, the Union industry was loss-making or barely breaking even throughout the 
period considered, while the presence of imports from the countries concerned was already significant in 2018 and 
increased steadily. None of these years would therefore qualify for providing a target profit in line with Article 7(2c) 
of the basic Regulation.
(404) No sampled Union producer provided a calculation of the profitability of the product under investigation for ten 
years before the initiation of the investigation, as asked in the questionnaire. The Commission also took note of the 
target profit established for this industry in the ceramic tiles investigation against China (3,9 %), that however dates 
back to 2010 (34), as well as the profitability achieved by the Union industry in the period considered for the expiry 
review investigation on imports originating in China, throughout which the Union industry was loss-making (35).
(405) Finally, none of the sampled producers made a substantiated claim or provided any evidence that their level of 
investments, research and development (‘R&D’) and innovation during the period considered would have been 
higher under normal conditions of competition.
(406) In view of the above facts, the Commission resorted to the use of the minimum target profit of 6 % as per Article 
7(2c) of the basic Regulation. This target profit margin was added to the Union industry’s actual cost of production 
to establish the non-injurious price.
(407) In accordance with Article 7(2d) of the basic Regulation, as a final step, the Commission assessed the future costs 
resulting from Multilateral Environmental Agreements, and protocols thereunder, to which the Union is a party, and 
of ILO Conventions listed in Annex Ia of the basic Regulation that the Union industry would incur during the period 
of the application of the measure pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation. Based on the evidence available 
(based on the companies’ accounting systems, their reporting tools and forecasts), the Commission established an 
additional cost in a range between 0,06 to 0,65 EUR/m2.
(34) For the original investigation period of the investigation against ceramic tiles from China, see recital (24) of Regulation (EU) 
No 258/2011. For the target profit of that investigation, see recitals (164) and (197) of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) 
No 917/2011.
(35) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2179.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/56 
10.2.2023  

(408) This cost comprised the additional future cost to ensure compliance with the Union Emissions Trading System (‘EU 
ETS’). The EU ETS is a cornerstone of the Union’s policy to comply with Multilateral Environmental Agreements. 
Such additional cost was calculated on the basis of the estimated price of the Union Allowances (‘EUAs’) which will 
have to be purchased during the period of the application of the measures. The additional costs also took account 
of indirect CO2 costs stemming from an increase in electricity prices over the same period linked to the EU ETS and 
the forecasted prices of EUAs.
(409) On this basis, the Commission calculated a non-injurious price for the like product of the Union industry by 
applying the target profit margin (see recital (406)) to the cost of production of the sampled Union producers 
during the investigation period and then adding the adjustments under Article 7(2d) on a type-by-type basis.
(410) The Commission then determined the injury margin level on the basis of a comparison of the weighted average 
import price of the sampled cooperating exporting producers in India and Türkiye, excluding the cooperating 
exporting producers that were not found to be dumping, as established for the price undercutting calculations, with 
the weighted average non-injurious price of the like product sold by the sampled Union producers on the Union 
market during the investigation period. Any difference resulting from this comparison was expressed as a 
percentage of the weighted average import CIF value.
(411) The injury elimination level for ‘other cooperating companies’ and for ‘all other companies’ is defined in the same 
manner as the dumping margin for these companies (see recitals (203) to (207) and (256) to (258)).
Country
Company
Dumping margin
Injury margin
India
The Conor Group
8,7 %
168,7 %
India
The Icon Group
6,7 %
92,7 %
India
Other cooperating companies
7,3 %
115,8 %
India
All other companies
8,7 %
168,7 %
Türkiye
Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
20,9 %
150,6 %
Türkiye
Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.,
Bien Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.
4,8 %
80,8 %
Türkiye
Other cooperating companies
9,2 %
100,5 %
Türkiye
All other companies
20,9 %
150,6 %
(412) Following final disclosure, the GoT claimed that the injury elimination margins were distorted by taking into 
consideration future compliance cost. The GoT enquired about how such cost was reflected in the calculation and 
whether potential introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism was taken into account. In this respect, 
CGCSA argued that an adjustment for future compliance cost was not compatible with WTO standards.
(413) In addition, CGCSA submitted that high levels of underselling confirmed the inclusion in the sample of Union 
producers manufacturing artisanal or special design products.
(414) Finally, CGCSA claimed that brand is an important factor in pricing decisions. Therefore, an adjustment for brand 
should be made when comparing the import prices of Turkish producers with the non-injurious prices of Union 
producers. To support this claim, CGCSA referred to the average export price of Italian and Spanish producers 
where the average export price of Italian producers was higher than the average export price of ceramic tiles 
exported from Spain. The interested party used trade statistics for the comparison.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/57  

(415) The GoT’s claim concerning future compliance cost was reiterated after the additional partial disclosure.
(416) The Commission noted that the inclusion of future compliance cost in the calculation of the injury elimination level 
was in line with the provisions of Article 7(2d) of the basic Regulation. The parties failed to specify which provisions 
of WTO ADA the Commission allegedly breached by considering them for the non-injurious price.
(417) To establish the value of such adjustment to the actual cost of production, the Commission compared the unit 
compliance cost in the IP with the estimated unit compliance cost in the following five years. The average excess 
value of such unit cost was added to the actual cost of production used in the calculation of non-injurious price. In 
the present case, the effect of future compliance cost was minor, representing on average approximately 3 % of the 
non-injurious price. Consequently, the Commission rejected the GoT’s claim that the calculation of the injury 
elimination level was distorted.
(418) Further, the assertions made by Turkish interested parties with regard to the composition of the sample of Union 
producers were already addressed in recitals (70) to (74) and (299).
(419) Finally, the Commission noted that neither CGCSA nor any sampled exporting producer requested an adjustment for 
brand during the investigation. Therefore, the Commission was not able to take position on the respective CGCSA’s 
claim. In any case, a simple comparison of export prices by Italian and Spanish producers could not be considered as 
supporting the party’s claim. The differences might have been caused by a number of other factors such as the 
exported product mix.
(420) Consequently, the Commission rejected the claims concerning the determination of the injury elimination level 
described in recitals (412) to (414).
6.2. Conclusion on the level of measures
(421) Following the above assessment, definitive anti-dumping duties should be set as below in accordance with Article 
7(2) of the basic Regulation:
Country
Company
Definitive anti-dumping duty
India
The Conor Group
8,7 %
India
The Icon Group
6,7 %
India
Other cooperating companies
7,3 %
India
All other companies
8,7 %
Türkiye
Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
20,9 %
Türkiye
Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.,
Bien Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.
4,8 %
Türkiye
Other cooperating companies
9,2 %
Türkiye
All other companies
20,9 %
7. UNION INTEREST
(422) The Commission examined whether it could clearly conclude that it was not in the Union interest to adopt measures 
in this case, despite the determination of injurious dumping, in accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation. 
The determination of the Union interest was based on an appreciation of all the various interests involved, 
including those of the Union industry, importers, users, and consumers.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/58 
10.2.2023  

(423) Following final disclosure, the GoI, GoT, the Turkish companies Seramiksan and Sogutsen Seramik, sixteen Indian 
exporting producers, and Ceramika Netto claimed that the Commission did not conduct a fair and complete Union 
interest test. Their claims are addressed in the respective sections below.
7.1. Interest of the Union industry
(424) The Union industry is composed of more than 300 producers in 24 Member States and employs directly over 
54 500 people (FTE). The main producing Member States, representing over 85% of total EU production, are Spain, 
Italy and Poland. As mentioned in recital (59), the Union industry is fragmented; the majority of producers, over 
240, are small and medium enterprises (‘SMEs’). As stated in recital (11), over 30% of the total EU production 
expressly supported the initiation of the investigation and no Union producer expressed opposition or a neutral 
position. There was also wide support for the investigation by national associations that cooperated with the 
investigation by providing data to the complainant.
(425) The investigation has shown that the Union industry is suffering material injury due to the dumped imports from 
India and Türkiye. As concluded in sections 4 and 5, the situation of the whole Union industry deteriorated as a 
result the increasing quantities of dumped imports from India and Türkiye at low prices. Those imports at such 
prices have constantly gained market share in the Union at the expense of the Union industry and prevented the 
Union industry from raising its prices to reasonably profitable levels that would allow it to reach the target profit.
(426) Anti-dumping measures against imports from India and Türkiye are expected to restore fair trade conditions on the 
Union market. This is expected to enable the Union industry to regain the some of the market share lost to dumped 
imports and do it at fair prices, improving its profit levels, which in turn would allow the industry to increase their 
investments. Indeed, investment is critical in this industry not only for maintenance, but also for innovation and 
investment in developing segments like large slabs. As a result of the measures, Union producers are expected to 
recover from the injurious situation, further invest and fulfil their commitments, including social and 
environmental ones.
(427) The non-imposition of measures would worsen the already materially injured situation of the Union industry, which 
is not strong enough to further withstand an increase of dumped imports at prices even below the Union industry’s 
costs of production. Should measures not be imposed, it can be expected that the increase of imports of dumped, 
low-priced ceramic tiles from India and Türkiye would continue. In that situation, the Union industry would be 
unable to raise its prices to profitable levels and would keep on losing sales to the dumped imports.
(428) The Commission therefore concluded that the imposition of measures is in the interest of the Union Industry.
7.2. Interest of unrelated importers
(429) On the date of initiation, more than 900 known importers (36) in the Union were contacted and invited to cooperate 
in the investigation. As explained in recitals (98) and (99), only two unrelated importers cooperated. Both companies 
replied to the Commission’s deficiency letter following the analysis of their questionnaires, but later stopped 
cooperating as none of them agreed to an on-spot verification or an RCC. The following analysis is based on their 
questionnaire replies and their replies to the deficiency letters, and the Commission’s own research (37).
(36) Complaint, annex 8.
(37) Since the unrelated importers stopped cooperating after the deficiency stage (they did not agree to a verification / RCC), the 
Commission’s analysis is based on the information they submitted including the supporting evidence (such as financial statements) 
and publicly available information (financial statements from a company register, financial data published by https://www.romanian- 
companies.eu/).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/59  

(430) Those two importers accounted for [3-4] % of the imports from the countries concerned in the investigation period, 
with India representing the bulk of their imports from the countries concerned. For one of them, the product under 
investigation was most of its activity in terms of turnover, while for the second, it represented about 1/4. The share 
of imports from the countries concerned in their total purchases was around 1/4. Both of them purchased 
significant quantities from Union producers in the investigation period and in 2020, and some smaller quantities 
from third countries other than the countries concerned. Their weighted average profitability related to the product 
under investigation, established as explained in recital (429) is in the range of [5-7%].
(431) Based on the above, while from a pure cost perspective any duty would have an impact on the activity of unrelated 
importers, given the level of the duties, the impact of the duty on the profit margins of the importers, and of those 
for which trading in ceramic tiles is not their only activity, would be limited, even if they had to absorb it 
completely. Finally, the investigation has shown that unrelated importers can also source non-dumped imports 
from other third countries and from the Union, as they did in 2020 and the investigation period. As shown in 
tables 1 and 4, the Union industry has sufficient capacity to cover demand in the Union.
(432) On the other hand, not imposing measures would worsen the materially injured situation of the Union industry as 
explained in recital (427). To be noted that, unlike importers, the Union industry barely made profits during the 
investigation period. Moreover, as importers rely on both the Union industry and other sources for their purchases, 
allowing imports to continue entering the Union at dumped prices at the expense of the Union industry would also 
affect their sources of supply.
(433) On this basis, the Commission concluded that the effect of the measures on unrelated importers would be limited.
(434) Following final disclosure, Seramiksan submitted that the Union interest test was affected by the fact that the 
Commission did not receive any information from and examine the interests of approximately 900 importers in the 
Union.
(435) The Commission noted that it informed all known Union importers about the initiation of the investigation. The 
Commission analysed and took into account information submitted by all those companies that decided to 
cooperate or sent submissions. Consequently, the Commission dismissed the claim.
(436) Following final disclosure, a number of Union importers indicated that the imposition of measures on imports from 
Türkiye would cause harm to them as they invested in the development of new collections in cooperation with the 
Turkish producers.
(437) The Commission noted that those Union importers did not cooperate at an earlier stage of the investigation and did 
not submit any factual information that would enable the Commission to assess the impact of the measures on those 
interested parties. In addition, based on comments received from Turkish sampled exporting producers after final 
disclosure, one Turkish exporting producer was found not to be dumping and the average level of the measures 
applicable to imports from Türkiye decreased. Thus, the Commission maintained that the effect of the duties on 
Union importers will be limited.
(438) Ceramika Netto made also several procedural claims following final disclosure.
(439) The company argued that the Commission incorrectly used terms like “so-called” or “labelling themselves as” 
manufacturers. The company submitted that it was recognised as manufacturer under the Union law, in particular 
under Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (38).
(440) The Commission noted that the definitions used in Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 305/2011 as per that article were 
only applicable to matters governed by that regulation. This investigation was conducted under the basic 
Regulation. Therefore, the definition of a manufacturer laid down by Regulation (EU) 305/2011 did not apply in 
this proceeding. In fact, according to the information available to the Commission, the company was a Union 
importer.
(38) Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 laying down harmonised conditions 
for the marketing of construction products and repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC (OJ L 88, 4.4.2011, p. 5).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/60 
10.2.2023  

(441) Ceramika Netto disagreed with the Commission’s statements in recital (461) concerning the price at which it 
imported to be dumped. In this respect, the company referred to domestic sales invoices and export sales invoices 
of its Indian suppliers provided to the Commission that, according to the company, proved that its import prices 
were not dumped.
(442) The Commission recalled that the investigation of dumping behaviour was conducted on a sample of Indian 
exporting producers. Therefore, any sales invoices submitted by Ceramika Netto were irrelevant for the findings of 
dumping. In recital (272), the Commission concluded that its findings regarding Conor Group and Icon Group 
could be extended country-wide. Consequently, those findings applied to imports from Ceramika Netto’s Indian 
suppliers.
(443) Ceramika Netto disagreed with the Commission’s assessment that it was a non-cooperating company. The company 
argued that the Notice of Initiation enabled it to submit information not only in the form of a questionnaire reply but 
also in free format. Ceramika Netto further claimed that the Commission should have informed the company about 
any information it was missing in the free-format submission.
(444) As noted in recital (440), Ceramika Netto is an importer for the purposes of this investigation. As noted in recitals 
(75) to (77) the company did not request to be considered as a cooperating importer. The Commission confirmed 
that, as a Union importer, the company had the option to submit information concerning Union interest in free 
format. It must be however noted that such information is not subject to deficiency process unlike a full 
questionnaire reply. The Commission was not obliged to request additional information, in particular as the type of 
information sought by the Commission was made publicly available via the questionnaires at initiation.
7.3. Interest of users and consumers
(445) On the date of initiation, the Commission contacted eight associations of users of ceramic tiles in the Union. None of 
them cooperated in the investigation or sent any submission. Notably, the construction sector, one of the biggest 
users of ceramic tiles in the Union, did not send any submission. The low level of cooperation from users would 
suggest that the sector does not rely on imports from the countries concerned or that anti-dumping duties would 
not have a significant impact on their activities.
(446) The Commission also contacted nine distributors. Only one of them, OBI Group Holding SE & Co, KGaA, agreed to 
cooperate. For the reasons explained in recital (76), the Commission considered that the company should be 
investigated as a user/trader of the product under investigation.
(447) The company opposes the imposition of measures and stated that the large production capacities in India and 
Türkiye cannot be fully replaced by EU producers, but it did not provide any supporting evidence for this statement. 
As shown in tables 1 and 4, the Union industry has enough capacity to meet EU demand. The company 
acknowledged the possibility of switching suppliers.
(448) The company purchases ceramic tiles from India and Türkiye mainly from independent importers acting as 
wholesalers and then resells them via its own large-scale stores and franchising partners. More than half of its 
purchases of ceramic tiles are Union products. Its profitability deriving from ceramic tiles is [1,5% - 3%], lower than 
its average profitability. Ceramic tiles represent only a very small part of the total company’s turnover. Therefore, and 
for the same reasons outlined in recitals (431) and (432), the Commission concluded that the impact on this 
company would be very limited.
(449) On this basis, and also given the low level of cooperation, the Commission concluded that the effect of the measures 
on users and traders would be limited.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/61  

(450) No association of consumers cooperated in the investigation. In its response to the questionnaire requesting the 
macro-indicators of the Union industry, CET submitted that it expects the impact on companies operating in the 
downstream markets – namely distributors and users/consumers – to be very limited, given the alternative sources 
of supply, and the findings of past investigations on ceramic tiles, that confirmed that ceramic tiles have a marginal 
bearing on final costs in the construction sector (39) and that the imposition of measures translates in limited price 
increases for the final consumer (40).
(451) The current investigation has confirmed the existence of alternative sources of supply other than India and Türkiye, 
as importers source from the Union and also from third countries other than India and Türkiye (see recitals (430) 
and (431)). In the absence of any substantiated submission from any consumer association, the Commission cannot 
accurately assess the impact, if any, that the duties would have on the final consumers, and there is no evidence 
suggesting that the findings of past investigation would not apply to this one. Also, given the level of the duties, 
even in case of price increases, these would rather have a limited impact on consumers.
(452) On this basis, and also given the low level of cooperation, the Commission concluded that the effect of the measures 
on consumers would be limited.
(453) Following final disclosure, sixteen Indian exporting producers claimed that the Commission did not take into 
account the numerous submissions made by Union importers and users. Ceramika Netto also referred to the 
submissions made by the company on behalf of its customers and trading partners. According to the company, 
those submissions indicated how harmful the imposition of measures would be to the company, its Indian supplier, 
Union importers, users and final customers.
(454) The Commission noted that it analysed the numerous submissions referred to by the Indian exporting producers and 
Ceramika Netto, and those were deficient in several aspects. First, they were made by companies which never 
registered as interested parties to the investigation. Second, they were submitted to the Commission by Ceramika 
Netto, an interested party that had not been empowered to act on behalf of those companies. Third, many of the 
submissions were made after the deadline(s) laid down by the Notice of Initiation. Finally, the submissions were 
mostly expressing opinions but lacked factual information and evidence that would support the opinions of those 
companies. Consequently, the Commission rejected the claims.
7.4. Other factors
(455) Besides the cooperating parties mentioned above, a number of interested parties made submissions stating that the 
imposition of measures would be against the Union interest.
(456) The following recitals analyse the claims, but, at the outset, the Commission notes that none of these interested 
parties, allegedly importers or users of ceramic tiles, or even so-called Union manufacturers (see recital (266)) (41), 
according to their submissions, cooperated with the investigation or sent a questionnaire reply. Their submissions 
are statements not supported by any evidence. Therefore, the Commission cannot assess how dependent these 
companies are on imports from the countries concerned or the potential impact of any duty on them.
(457) First, these parties pointed to potential supply chain difficulties, also given the current geopolitical events like the war 
in Ukraine. These parties stated that any duty would force buyers to rely exclusively on the Union industry. 
According to them it is necessary to keep all importing options open since the Union industry is struggling to cater 
Union demand and that users cannot rely on the Union industry.
(39) Regulation (EU) No 258/2011, recital (150).
(40) Regulation (EU) No 258/2011, recital (153); Implementing Regulation (EU) No 917/2011, recital (183); and Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2017/2179, recital (206).
(41) For example, GANDALF Pawel Gagorowski (Poland) or ILCOM s.r.l (Italy) identified themselves as importers, VEDMAX s.r.l. (Romania) 
or Orient Ceramic (Romania) identified themselves as users/importers, Ogrodnik Niemirscy Sp.J (Poland) identified itself as a “seller”, 
while Netto & Cortina (Poland) identified themselves throughout the investigation as “the manufacturers from Białystok”.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/62 
10.2.2023  

(458) The claims are dismissed. First, they are unsubstantiated. Second, the investigation revealed that the Union industry 
has enough capacity to supply the whole Union market. The investigation has also shown that importers and users 
have recourse to non-dumped imports from third countries other than the countries concerned; in fact, the 
importers and users that cooperated with the investigation sourced from both the Union industry and third 
countries other than the countries concerned in 2020 and the investigation period.
(459) The Commission acknowledged that it might be difficult to source from Ukraine (a traditional, if minor, source of 
supply of ceramic tiles to the Union, see table 11). However, as stated in the previous recital, there are still sources 
of non-dumped imports and those channels are not affected by the current situation. Brazil, Vietnam, Iran, 
Indonesia and Egypt were on the top 10 manufacturing countries worldwide in 2020; Iran, Brazil, Egypt and the 
United Arab Emirates were among the top 10 exporters in the same period (42).
(460) Second, with a focus on imports from India, these parties expressed concern that any potential duty would limit 
consumer’s choice as well as the possibility to outsource production to India. In their statements, Netto & Cortina 
attached several letters from their customers expressing satisfaction with their purchases as “evidence” that it is not 
in the Union interest to impose measures as it would, also, limit consumer choice by “forcing” them to buy from the 
Union industry.
(461) The Commission noted that the allegations were unsubstantiated. These parties did not provide any evidence that the 
ceramic tiles they import from India could not be produced and sold by the Union industry. In fact, these parties 
acknowledged that the choice of consumers is driven by price (43), when they mentioned the “right to choose the 
best offer at the best price”. In this case, these prices were found to be dumped. The aim of the anti-dumping duties 
is to restore the level playing field by counteracting dumping. Consumers, importers and users will still be able to 
buy the products from the countries concerned, or outsource production to then import them, but at fair prices by 
paying the anti-dumping duties, and they will also be able to source from the Union industry or other countries.
(462) Third, many of these parties stated that Indian products are not dumped in the Union, and that the enormous 
increase of international transport costs (allegedly by more than 1 000%) made them more expensive in the Union.
(463) The claim also was dismissed as unsubstantiated. The parties did not provide any evidence regarding transport costs. 
Dumping was found on the basis of the normal value and export price, both at ex-works level, of the sampled 
exporting producers during the investigation period.
(464) Fourth, these parties alleged that any potential anti-dumping duty would not be in the Union interest as it would lead 
to high price pressure on consumers on top of the current high level of inflation in the Union, curtail healthy 
competition and cause many businesses that rely on those imports to close down, especially in the poorer parts of 
the Union.
(465) The claims were dismissed as unsubstantiated. The parties did not provide any evidence of the potential impact of 
any duty on consumers or businesses.
(466) The allegations submitted by Netto and Cortina regarding close-downs; bankruptcy: mass reduction of jobs in the 
Union, and not only those of importers, consumers and traders, but also of other industries, like logistics or design, 
especially in the poorest regions, referring specifically to Poland; are also unsubstantiated. The investigation 
established that the impact of the duties on importers, consumers and traders is likely to be limited (see recitals 
(429) to (431)), and therefore close-downs, bankruptcies or mass reduction of jobs are unlikely. The investigation 
has also established that manufacture of ceramic tiles takes place across the Union, with Poland being the third 
manufacturing country in the EU, and that, unlike traders or importers, the Union industry has not been able to 
recover its costs and steadily lost market share to imports from India and Türkiye.
(42) Source: macroquestionnaire, section D.2.1. and complaint, ps 49 and 52.
(43) See for example Netto & Cortina’s “Additional statement in the case AD684” pages 8 and 14.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/63  

(467) Regarding the indirect impact on other industries, and while Netto & Cortina submitted no evidence or 
quantification, the Commission notes the non-imposition of duties would also affect other industries. For example, 
according to the Spanish association of manufacturers (ASCER) the ceramic tiles industry generated, both direct and 
indirect, 60 000 jobs in Spain, amounting to 2,4 % of industrial employment. Each direct job was estimated to create 
a further 3,8 indirect jobs (44). Regarding impact on regions, in the area of Castellon in Spain ceramic tiles producers 
are part of a cluster where most of the companies are SMEs and directly or indirectly depend on the ceramic tile 
production industry.
(468) In sum, the interested parties have not submitted any evidence that the non-imposition of duties would outweigh the 
positive consequences for the Union industry of imposing measures, as explained in recitals (424) to (428).
(469) Following final disclosure, the GoT and sixteen Indian exporting producers argued that the Commission should have 
taken into account the effects of the Russian invasion in Ukraine on the Union market of ceramic tiles. In particular, 
the parties claimed that the war led to increasing energy prices and blocked access to raw materials that might, 
together with existing barriers such as the anti-dumping measures on imports of ceramic tiles originating in China, 
negatively affect the supply chains and put more pressure on the Union importers and users.
(470) Following the additional partial disclosure, the GoT reiterated that the Covid-19 pandemic proved the importance of 
well functioning supply chains. The GoT maintained that open channels of supply from Türkiye to the Union 
remained crucial in energy intensive industries like the production of ceramic tiles, in particular in context of the 
ongoing Russian invasion in Ukraine, the sanctions imposed by the Union and the subsequent increase in energy 
prices.
(471) With regard to the Russian invasion in Ukraine, the Commission noted that it has had a negative effect on the Union 
producers in the first place. The impact of the war on importers and users is limited as the volume of imports from 
Ukraine was already negligible during the period considered. In addition, the non-imposition of the measures on two 
sampled exporting producers (Lavish Group and Vitra Group) will reduce any additional pressure put on supply 
chains due to the war. Consequently, the Commission dismissed the claims described in recitals (469) and (470).
(472) Following the additional partial disclosure, CGCSA argued that the imposition of anti-dumping measures would be 
against the interest of the highly integrated ceramic tiles industries in the Union and in Türkiye. In this respect, the 
association pointed out that the Turkish ceramic tiles producers sourced their raw and consumable materials, fixed 
assets, and spare parts from the Union. Total value of such purchases increased from 163 million EUR in 2019, 
through 188 million EUR in 2020, 233 million EUR in 2021 up to 309 million EUR in the first ten months of 
2022. In addition, Turkish companies invested in ceramic tiles manufacturing, logistics and services in the Union. 
Total value of such investments reached 366 million EUR over the period of 2019 – 2021 and created 
approximately 1 700 jobs. At a hearing with the Commission services, the GoT made similar arguments.
(473) The Commission acknowledged the interdependencies between the Turkish and Union ceramic tiles industry. 
Nevertheless, the Commission noted that there was no evidence that the procurement of raw and consumable 
materials, fixed assets, and spare parts was directly linked to the ceramic tiles exports to the Union. For example, the 
purchase value substantially increased between 2021 (full year) and 2022 (first ten months) although, as confirmed 
by the GoT (see recital (282)), the volume of ceramic tiles exports from Türkiye to the Union decreased in the first 
ten months of 2022 as compared to the same period of 2021. In addition, restoring the level playing field should 
lead to an increased production in the Union thus providing the Union suppliers of raw and consumable materials, 
fixed assets, and spare parts with new business opportunities.
(44) Impacto socioeconómico y fiscal del sector de azulejos y pavimentos cerámicos en España. Available at https://transparencia.ascer.es/ 
media/1039/informe-impacto-socioeco-sector-cer%C3%A1mico_ascer.pdf (last viewed 7 October 2022).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/64 
10.2.2023  

(474) Moreover, the Commission took note of the investment activities by Turkish companies in the ceramic tiles industry 
in the Union. Those investments increase employment and foster economic development in the respective regions. 
Restoring a level playing field in the Union will benefit the investments already realised by Turkish producers and 
may motivate further investments. Finally, the party failed to specify to what extent those purchases and 
investments were carried out by the Vitra Group, which was found not to be dumping and will thus not be affected 
by the anti-dumping measures.
(475) In view of the considerations described in recitals (473) and (474), the Commission concluded that the measures 
may have a very limited impact on the Union suppliers of raw and consumable materials, fixed assets, and spare 
parts and be in favour of these investments realised by Turkish producer in the Union. Consequently, the 
Commission rejected the claims presented in recital (472).
7.5. Conclusion on Union interest
(476) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that there were no compelling reasons that it was not in the 
Union interest to impose measures on imports of ceramic tiles originating in India and Türkiye.
8. DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES
(477) On the basis of the conclusions reached by the Commission on dumping, injury, causation, level of measures and 
Union interest, and in accordance with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation, definitive anti-dumping measures 
should be imposed in order to prevent further injury being caused to the Union industry by the dumped imports of 
the product concerned. Anti-dumping duties should be set in accordance with the lesser duty rule. As mentioned in 
section 3, anti-dumping duties are not applicable to the Indian exporting producer Lavish Group and to the Turkish 
exporting producer Vitra Group.
(478) On the basis of the above, the definitive anti-dumping duty rates, expressed on the CIF Union border price, customs 
duty unpaid, should be as follows:
Country
Company
Definitive anti-dumping duty
India
The Conor Group
8,7 %
India
The Icon Group
6,7 %
India
Other cooperating companies
7,3 %
India
All other companies
8,7 %
Türkiye
Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
20,9 %
Türkiye
Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.,
Bien Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.
4,8 %
Türkiye
Other cooperating companies
9,2 %
Türkiye
All other companies
20,9 %
(479) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the 
findings of this investigation. Therefore, they reflect the situation found during this investigation with respect to 
these companies. These duty rates are exclusively applicable to imports of the product under investigation 
originating in the countries concerned and produced by the named legal entities. Imports of the product concerned 
produced by any other company not specifically mentioned in the operative part of this Regulation, including 
entities related to those specifically mentioned, should be subject to the duty rate applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
They should not be subject to any of the individual anti-dumping duty rates.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/65  

(480) A company, among those specifically mentioned in this Regulation, may request the application of these individual 
anti-dumping duty rates if it changes subsequently the name of its entity. The request must be addressed to the 
Commission (45). The request must contain all the relevant information enabling to demonstrate that the change 
does not affect the right of the company to benefit from the duty rate which applies to it. If the change of name of 
the company does not affect its right to benefit from the duty rate which applies to it, a regulation about the change 
of name will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
(481) To ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duties, the anti-dumping duty for all other companies should 
apply not only to the non-cooperating exporting producers in this investigation, but also to the producers which 
did not have exports to the Union during the investigation period.
(482) To minimise the risks of circumvention due to the difference in duty rates, special measures are needed to ensure the 
application of the individual anti-dumping duties. The companies with individual anti-dumping duties must present 
a valid commercial invoice to the customs authorities of the Member States. The invoice must conform to the 
requirements set out in Article 1(4) of this Regulation. Imports not accompanied by that invoice should be subject 
to the anti-dumping duty applicable to ‘all other companies’.
(483) While presentation of this invoice is necessary for the customs authorities of the Member States to apply the 
individual rates of anti-dumping duty to imports, it is not the only element to be taken into account by the customs 
authorities. Indeed, even if presented with an invoice meeting all the requirements set out in Article 1(4) of this 
Regulation, the customs authorities of Member States must carry out their usual checks and may, like in all other 
cases, require additional documents (shipping documents, etc.) for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the 
particulars contained in the declaration and ensure that the subsequent application of the lower rate of duty is 
justified, in compliance with customs law.
(484) Should the exports by one of the companies benefiting from lower individual duty rates increase significantly in 
volume after the imposition of the measures concerned, such an increase in volume could be considered as 
constituting in itself a change in the pattern of trade due to the imposition of measures within the meaning of 
Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation. In such circumstances and provided the conditions are met an anti- 
circumvention investigation may be initiated. This investigation may, inter alia, examine the need for the removal of 
individual duty rate(s) and the consequent imposition of a country-wide duty.
(485) Exporting producers that did not export the product concerned to the Union during the investigation period should 
be able to request the Commission to be made subject to the anti-dumping duty rate for cooperating companies not 
included in the sample. The Commission should grant such request provided that three conditions are met. The new 
exporting producer would have to demonstrate that: (i) it did not export the product concerned to the Union during 
the IP; (ii) it is not related to an exporting producer that did so; and (iii) has exported the product concerned 
thereafter or has entered into an irrevocable contractual obligation to do so in substantial quantities.
9. FINAL PROVISIONS
(486) In view of Article 109 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council (46), 
when an amount is to be reimbursed following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the 
interest to be paid should be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, 
as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union on the first calendar day of each month.
(45) European Commission, Directorate-General for Trade, Directorate G, Wetstraat 170 Rue de la Loi, 1040 Brussels, Belgium.
(46) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable 
to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) 
No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision No 541/2014/EU 
and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/66 
10.2.2023  

(487) The measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by 
Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036.
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is imposed on imports of ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles; ceramic 
mosaic cubes and the like, whether or not on a backing; finishing ceramics, currently falling under CN codes 6907 21 00, 
6907 22 00, 6907 23 00, 6907 30 00 and 6907 40 00 and originating in India or Türkiye.
2.
The rates of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price, before duty, of the 
product described in paragraph 1 and produced by the companies listed below shall be as follows:
Country
Company
Definitive anti- 
dumping duty
TARIC additional code
India
Conor Granito Pvt Ltd.; Corial Ceramic Pvt Ltd.
8,7 %
C898
India
Acecon Vitrified Pvt Ltd.; Avlon Ceramics Pvt Ltd.; 
Duracon Vitrified Pvt Ltd.; Eracon Vitrified Pvt Ltd.; 
Evershine Vitrified Pvt Ltd.; Icon Granito Pvt Ltd.; 
Venice Ceramics Pvt Ltd.
6,7 %
C899
India
Other cooperating companies listed in Annex I
7,3%
India
All other companies
8,7%
C999
Türkiye
Hitit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
20,9 %
C900
Türkiye
Qua Granite ve Hayal Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.;
Bien Yapi Ürünleri San. Tic. A.Ş.
4,8 %
C901
Türkiye
Other cooperating companies listed in Annex II
9,2 %
Türkiye
All other companies
20,9 %
C999
3.
Anti-dumping duties are not applicable to the Indian exporting producer the Lavish Group, consisting of Lavish 
Granito Pvt Ltd., Lavish Ceramics Pvt Ltd., Lakme Vitrified Pvt Ltd. and Liva Ceramics Pvt Ltd. (TARIC additional code 
C903), and are not applicable to the Turkish exporting producer Vitra Karo Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (TARIC additional code 
C902).
4.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the companies mentioned in paragraph 2, as well as the non- 
application of any anti-dumping duty rate for the companies mentioned in paragraph 3, shall be conditional upon 
presentation to the Member States’ customs authorities of a valid commercial invoice, on which shall appear a declaration 
dated and signed by an official of the entity issuing such invoice, identified by his/her name and function, drafted as 
follows: ‘I, the undersigned, certify that the [volume] of [product concerned] sold for export to the European Union covered by this 
invoice was manufactured by [company name and address] (TARIC additional code) in [country concerned]. I declare that the 
information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.’ If no such invoice is presented, the duty applicable to all other 
companies shall apply.
5.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/67  

Article 2
Article 1(2) may be amended to add new exporting producers from India or Türkiye and make them subject to the 
appropriate weighted average anti-dumping duty rate for cooperating companies not included in the sample. A new 
exporting producer shall provide evidence that:
(a) it did not export the goods described in Article 1(1) originating in India or Türkiye during the period of investigation 
(1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021);
(b) it is not related to an exporter or producer subject to the measures imposed by this Regulation, and which could have 
cooperated in the original investigation; and
(c) it has either actually exported the product concerned or has entered into an irrevocable contractual obligation to export 
a significant quantity to the Union after the end of the period of investigation.
Article 3
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 9 February 2023.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/68 
10.2.2023  

ANNEX I 
Indian cooperating exporting producers not sampled
Country
Name
TARIC additional code
India
Arkiton Tiles LLP
Ncraze Ceramic LLP
C919
India
Asian Granito India Limited
Crystal Ceramic Industries Private Limited
Affil Vitrified Private Limited
Amazoone Ceramics Limited
C920
India
Color Tiles Private Limited
Color Granito Private Limited
Subway Tiles LLP
Senis Ceramic Private Limited
C921
India
Comet Granito Private Limited
Corus Vitrified Private Limited
C922
India
Granoland Tiles LLP
Landgrace Ceramic Private Limited
Landdecor Tiles LLP
C923
India
Sunshine Tiles Company Private Limited
Sunshine Vitrious Tiles Private Limited
Sunshine Ceramic
Jaysun Ceramics
Sunray Tiles Private Limited
Sologres Granito Private Limited
Leesun Ceramic Tiles Co
Grenic Tiles Private Limited
Antonova Tiles (India)
C924
India
Aajveto Manufacturing Private Limited
The President Group
Artos International LLP
Spolo Ceramic Private Limited
Veritaas Granito LLP
Pioneer Ceramic Industries
Zed Vitrified Private Limited
Indesign Ceramics LLP
C925
India
Accord Vitrified Private Limited
Accord Plus Ceramics Private Limited
C927
India
Alinta Granito Private Limited
Avalta Granito Private Limited
C928
India
Alpas Cera LLP
Cosa Ceramic Private Limited
C929
India
Ambani Vitrified Private Limited
C930
India
Solizo Vitrified Private Limited
C931
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/69  

India
Axison Vitrified Private Limited
Axiom Ceramic Private Limited
Swellco Ceramic
C935
India
Blizzard Vitrified LLP
Blizzard Ceramica LLP
C937
India
Blueart Granito Private Limited
Iyota Tiles LLP
C938
India
Bluetone Impex LLP
C939
India
Bluezone Vitrified Private Limited
Bluezone Tiles LLP
Bluegrass Porcelano LLP
C940
India
Bonza Vitrified Private Limited
Boffo Granito LLP
Big Tiles
C941
India
Cadillac Granito Private Limited
Captiva Ceramic Industries
C942
India
Capron Vitrified Private Limited
C943
India
Classy Tiles LLP
C944
India
Claystone Granito Private Limited
Favourite Plus Ceramic Private Limited
Clayart Granito LLP
Torino Tiles LLP
Astila Ceramic Private Limited
C945
India
Commander Vitrified Private Limited
Creanza Ceramic Private Limited
Commander Ceramic Industries
Amora Tiles Private Limited
Amora Ceramics Private Limited
C946
India
Cruso Granito Private Limited
C947
India
Cyber Ceramics
C948
India
Delta Ceramic
C949
India
Dureza Granito Private Limited
C950
India
Emcer Tiles Private Limited
Emcer Granito LLP
Sanford Vitrified Private Limited
Parker Tiles Private Limited
Ascent Ceramica Private Limited
Lenswood Ceramic
C951
India
Exotica Ceramic Private Limited
C952
India
Exxaro Tiles Limited
C953
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/70 
10.2.2023  

India
Face Ceramics Private Limited
Fea Ceramics
Cygen Ceramic LLP
Sorento Granito Private Limited
Soriso Ceramic Private Limited
Soriso Granito LLP
Angel Ceramic Pct Limited
Blue Art Granito Private Limited
Face Impex Private Limited
C954
India
Favourite Plus Ceramic Private Limited
C956
India
Flavour Granito LLP
Rex Ceramic Private Limited
C957
India
Fusion Granito Private Limited
Vivanta Ceramic Private Limited
C958
India
Gold Cera International
C959
India
Gryphon Ceramics Private Limited
Cosa Ceramics Pct Limited
RAK Ceramics Private Limited
Gris Ceramic LLP
Grupo Griffin Ceramica LLP
Alpas Cera LLP
C960
India
Handmada International
C961
India
Hilltop Ceramic
C962
India
Ibis Smart Marble Private Limited
Silverpearl Tile Private Limited
C963
India
Italica Granito Private Limited
Italica Floor Tiles Private Limited
Soriso Ceramic Private Limited
C964
India
Ita Lake Ceramic Private Limited
Itaca Ceramic Private Limited
Sperita Granito LLP
C966
India
Itacon Granito Private Limited
U-Con Ceramica LLP
Tecon Tiles Private Limited
Valencia Ceramic Private Limited
Livolla Granito LLP
Velloza Granito LLP
C968
India
Italia Ceramics Limited
Piccolo Mosaic Limited
C969
India
Italus Vitrified LLP
C971
India
Itcos Granito LLP
Icera Tiles LLP
C972
India
Itoli Granito LLP
Imlis Ceramica LLP
C973
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/71  

India
K2D Exim
C974
India
Kag Granito LLP
Rollza Granito LLP
C975
India
Kajaria Ceramics Limited
Jaxx Vitrified Private Limited
Cosa Ceramics Private Limited
Kajaria Tiles Private Limited
Vennar Ceramics Limited
C976
India
Keezia Tiles LLP
C977
India
Kitco Ceramic
C978
India
Kripton Granito Private Limited
Kripton Ceramic Private Limited
La Berry Ceramics Private Limited
Nice Ceramic Private Limited
Gresart Ceramica Private Limited
C979
India
Latto Tiles LLP
Spinora Tiles Private Limited
C980
India
Laxveer Ceramic LLP
Lovato Ceramic Private Limited
C981
India
Leopard Vitrified Private Limited
Livon Ceramic
Letoza Granito LLP
C982
India
Lexus Granito India Limited
Lioli Ceramica Private Limited
C983
India
Lezora Vitrified Private Limited
Lemzon Granito LLP
Lezwin Tiles LLP
Sisam Granito LLP
C984
India
Livenza Granito LLP
Livanto Ceramic Private Limited
Lizzart Granito LLP
Linia Ceramic LLP
L Tile Granito LLP
C986
India
Lorence Vitrified LLP
Lepono Porcelano LLP
Lanford Ceramic Private Limited
C987
India
Lycos Ceramic Private Limited
Livolla Granito LLP
Crevita Granito Private Limited
C988
India
Maps Granito Private Limited
Perth Ceramic Private Limited
C989
India
Marbilano Tiles LLP
Marbilano Surface LLP
C990
India
Max Granito Private Limited
Epos Tiles LLP
C119
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/72 
10.2.2023  

India
Metropole Tiles Private Limited
Metro City Tiles Private Limited
Metro Ceramics
Mactile India Private Limited
C120
India
Millennium Granito India Private Limited
Lorenzo Vitrified Tiles Private Limited
Millenium Vitrified Tile Private Limited
Millenium Tile LLP
Clan Vitrified Private Limited
Millenium Ceramic LLP
Millenia Ceramica Private Limited
Millenium Cera Tiles Private Limited
C121
India
Montana Tiles
Plazma Granito Private Limited
Raykas Ceramic LLP
C122
India
Motto Ceramic Private Limited
Motto Tiles Private Limited
Slimtile Private Limited
Monza Granito Private Limited
Rossa Tiles Private Limited
Motto Stone Private Limited
C123
India
Mox tiles LLP
Itile LLP
Swell Granito LLP
C124
India
Neelson Ceramic LLP
Neelson Porselano LLP
Win Tel Ceramics Private Limited
Theos Tiles LLP
C125
India
Nehani Tiles Private Limited
Neha Ceramic Industries
Orinda Granito LLP
Orinda Industries LLP
C126
India
Nessa Vitrified LLP
LGF Vitrified Private Limited
C127
India
Nexion International Private Limited
Simpolo Vitrified Private Limited
C130
India
Nitco Limited
C131
India
Oasis Vitrified Private Limited
Oasis Tiles LLP
Max Ceramics Private Limited
Revenza Ceramics
C132
India
Olwin Tiles (India) Private Limited
C133
India
Onery Tiles LLP
C134
India
Oscar Ceramics
C136
India
Pavit Ceramics Private Limited
Victory Ceratech Private Limited
C138
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/73  

India
Prism Johnson Limited
Antique Marbonite Private Limited
Coral Gold Tiles Private Limited
Sanskar Ceramics Private Limited
Spectrum Johnson Tiles Private Limited
Small Johnson Floor Tiles Private Limited
Sparten Granito Private Limited
C142
India
Q-BO (Savion Ceramic)
C308
India
Qutone Ceramic Private Limited
C631
India
Range Ceramic Private Limited
C633
India
Rey Cera Creation Private Limited
Simbel Ceramic Private Limited
Adoration Ceramica Private Limited
C636
India
Scientifica Tiles LLP
Saiwin Ceramic Private Limited
Saimax Ceramic Private Limited
Siscon Tiles LLP
Aland Ceramic Private Limited
C639
India
Seron Granito Private Limited
C640
India
Sez Vitrified Private Limited
C641
India
Silon Granito LLP
C642
India
Simero Vitrified Private Limited
Simero International LLP
C643
India
Simola Tiles LLP
C644
India
Skajen Vitrified Private Limited
Spice Ceramic Private Limited
Legend Ceramic Private Limited
C646
India
Skytouch Ceramic Private Limited
Icolux Porcelano LLP
C648
India
Sober Plus Ceramics
Sober Ceramics
C649
India
Solizo Vitrified Private Limited
C650
India
Somany Ceramics Limited
Vintage Tiles Private Limited
Vicon Ceramic Private Limited
Amora Tiles Private Limited
Amora Ceramics Private Limited
Acer Granito Private Limited
Somany Fine Vitrified Private Limited
Sudha Somany Ceramics Private Limited and
Somany Piastrelle Private Limited
C651
India
Sparron Vitrified LLP
C652
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/74 
10.2.2023  

India
Square Ceramic Private Limited
Casva Tiles Private Limited
A004
India
Starco Ceramic
A005
India
Sunland Ceramic Private Limited
A006
India
Sunworld Vitrified Private Limited
Shagun Ceramics
A007
India
Swellco Ceramic
Axison Vitrified Private Limited
Axiom Ceramic Private Limited
A008
India
Titanium Vitrified Private Limited
Moral Ceramic Private Limited
Onery Tiles LLP
A010
India
Varmora Granito Private Limited
Tocco Ceramics Private Limited
Solaris Ceramics Private Limited
Nextile Marbosys Private Limited
Fiorenza GRanito Private Limited
Sentosa Granito Private Limited,
Renite Vitrified LLP
Avalta Granito Private Limited and
Covertek Ceramica Private Limited
A013
India
Velsaa Vitrified LLP
Velsaa Enterprises LLP
Boss Ceramics
Magnum Ceramics
A014
India
Verona Granito Private Limited
A016
India
Wallmark Ceramic Industry
A017
India
Zarko Granito Private Limited
A019
India
Zealtop Granito Private Limited
A020
India
Vita Granito
C926
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
10.2.2023 
L 41/75  

ANNEX II 
Turkish cooperating exporting producers not sampled
Country
Name
TARIC additional code
Türkiye
Akgün Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (1)
Akgün Toprak Sanayi İnşaat ve Ticaret A.Ş.
Veli Akgün Seramik İnşaat Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C904
Türkiye
Anka Toprak Ürünleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C905
Türkiye
Decovita Yapi Ürünleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C906
Türkiye
Ege Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C907
Türkiye
Etili Seramik İnşaat Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C908
Türkiye
Graniser Granit Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C909
Türkiye
Kaleseramik Çanakkale Kalebodur Seramik Sanayi A.Ş.
C910
Türkiye
Karo Metro Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C911
Türkiye
NG Kütahya Seramik Porselen Turizm A.Ş.
C912
Türkiye
Seramiksan Turgutlu Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C913
Türkiye
Seranit Granit Seramik Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş.
C914
Türkiye
Söğütsen Seramik Sanayi İnşaat Madencilik İthalat İhracat A.Ş.
C915
Türkiye
Termal Seramik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.
C916
Türkiye
Uşak Seramik Sanayi A.Ş.
C917
Türkiye
Yurtbay Seramik Sanayi Ticaret A.Ş.
C918
(1) A.Ş. stands for Anonim Şirketi
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 41/76 
10.2.2023