II
(Non-legislative acts)
REGULATIONS
COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2023/118 
of 23 September 2022
amending Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council, as regards animal health requirements for movements 
within the Union of captive birds intended for exhibitions 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on 
transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the area of animal health (‘Animal Health 
Law’) (1), and in particular Article 140(b) and Article 149(4) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 (2) lays down rules supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 as 
regards animal health requirements for movements within the Union of terrestrial animals and hatching eggs.
(2)
Article 67 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 lays down the requirements for movements of captive birds 
intended for exhibitions and Article 71 of that Delegated Regulation indicates that operators shall only move 
captive birds to another Member State if they are accompanied by an animal health certificate issued by the 
competent authority of the Member State of origin. Article 81(2) of that Delegated Regulation lays down the details 
on the content of the animal health certificate for those captive birds.
(3)
When a captive birds’ exhibition takes place in a Member State, any participant located in another Member State 
must obtain an animal health certificate to participate to this exhibition, in accordance with Article 71 of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/688. When several participants are located in the same Member State, the competent 
authority of this Member State may consider inappropriate to allocate resources to issue the animal health 
certificate in each establishment of origin.
(4)
In order to overcome this issue, and at the same time provide adequate animal health guarantees, it is appropriate to 
allow competent authorities to issue certificates in establishments where captive birds are temporarily gathered and 
kept before being dispatched to an exhibition in another Member State. Article 67 of Regulation (EU) 2020/688 
should therefore be amended accordingly.
(1) OJ L 84, 31.3.2016, p. 1.
(2) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 of 17 December 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council, as regards animal health requirements for movements within the Union of terrestrial animals and 
hatching eggs (OJ L 174, 3.6.2020, p. 140).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
18.1.2023 
L 16/1  

(5)
In the Union, aerobatic pigeons’ events take place regularly. They consist in the gathering of pigeons which can come 
from several Member States and are transported in cages by their keepers from the establishments of origin where 
they are normally kept to the event location. The birds are released there for flight demonstrations before returning 
to their cages in which they are brought back to their establishment of origin. These events can therefore be 
considered as exhibitions, equivalent to those organised for birds of prey. Article 67 should therefore be amended to 
extend the requirements for flight hunting exhibitions of birds of prey to all equivalent types of exhibition and to 
specify the conditions relevant for movements to and from such events.
(6)
Moreover, Article 71 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 requires that operators only move captive birds to 
another Member State if they are accompanied by an animal health certificate issued by the competent authority of 
the Member State of origin. This Article also provides for certain derogations from such obligation. In view of the 
amendments made to Article 67, it is necessary to reflect those changes in the derogations provided for in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 71. Therefore, Article 71 should be amended accordingly.
(7)
Article 81(2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 lays down the details on the content of the animal health 
certificate for captive birds. In view of the possibility introduced in Article 67 by this Regulation of moving captive 
birds collected in a single registered establishment located in the Member State of origin, it is appropriate to specify 
the requirements that should be complied with in that specific case. Therefore, Article 81(2) should be amended 
accordingly.
(8)
Article 91 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 details the responsibility of the competent authority for animal 
health certification and specific provisions concerning captive birds are set out in paragraph 1, point (e), of that 
Article. It is appropriate to complete those provisions in order to provide for the identity and physical checks, and 
documentary checks to be carried out when captive birds intended for an exhibition in another Member State are 
temporarily collected and kept in an establishment for certification purposes. Article 91 should therefore be 
amended accordingly.
(9)
Regulation (EU) 2020/688 should therefore be amended,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 is amended as follows:
(1) Article 67 is replaced by the following:
‘Article 67
Requirements for movements of captive birds intended for exhibitions
1.
Operators shall only move captive birds to an exhibition in another Member State when those animals fulfil the 
conditions set out in Article 59.
2.
Before the movement to an exhibition in another Member State, the operators in a Member State may collect 
captive birds in a single registered establishment located in the same Member State under the following conditions:
(a) the captive birds stay in that establishment for a maximum period of 12 hours;
(b) at the time of collecting, the establishment only keeps captive birds intended to the relevant exhibition;
(c) all captive birds collected in the establishment come directly from registered or approved establishments in which 
they are continuously kept and in which they fulfill the conditions set out in Article 59.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 16/2 
18.1.2023  

3.
The operator of the exhibition, excluding any flight exhibitions, shall ensure that:
(a) the entry into the exhibition of animals is limited to captive birds registered in advance for the participation in the 
exhibition;
(b) the entry into the exhibition of birds originating from establishments situated in the Member State where the 
exhibition takes place does not jeopardise the health status of birds participating in the exhibition by
either
(i)
requiring the same health status for all captive birds participating in the exhibition;
or
(ii) keeping the captive birds originating from the Member State where the exhibition takes place on separate 
premises or enclosures apart from captive birds originating from other Member States;
(c) a veterinarian
(i)
carries out identity checks on captive birds participating in the exhibition prior to their entry in the exhibition;
(ii) monitors the clinical conditions of the birds upon entry into and during the exhibition.
4.
Operators shall ensure that captive birds which are moved to an exhibition in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2 
and 3, are only moved from such exhibition to another Member State when they fulfil the following requirements:
(a) the animals are accompanied by an animal health certificate in accordance with Article 81;
or
(b) in the case of captive birds other than those participating to flight exhibitions, the animals are accompanied by all 
of the following documents:
(i)
a declaration issued by the veterinarian referred to in paragraph 3, point (c), stating that the health status of the 
birds as attested in the original animal health certificate in accordance with Article 81 has not been 
compromised during the exhibition,
(ii) the valid original animal health certificate in accordance with Article 81 issued by the competent authority of 
the Member State of origin for the movement of the captive birds to the exhibition;
(c) in the case of birds that participated in a flight exhibition, the animals are accompanied by the valid original animal 
health certificate in accordance with Article 81 issued by the competent authority of the Member State of origin for 
the movement of the birds to the flight exhibition, without the attestation described in point (b) (i), provided that:
(i)
they are moved back to the Member State of origin, and
(ii) the intended movement of the captive birds to the Member State of origin will be completed within the period 
of validity of the original animal health certificate in accordance with Article 81 issued by the competent 
authority of the Member State of origin for the movement of the captive birds to the flight exhibition.
5.
The veterinarian referred to in paragraph 3, point (c), shall only issue the declaration referred to in paragraph 4, 
point (b)(i) provided that:
(a) the animals are moved back to the Member State of origin,
(b) arrangements have been made that the intended movement of the captive birds to the Member State of origin will 
be completed within the period of validity of the original animal health certificate in accordance with Article 81 
issued by the competent authority of the Member State of origin for the movement of the captive birds to the 
exhibition,
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
18.1.2023 
L 16/3  

(c) the conditions set out in paragraph 3, point (b) have been fulfilled.’
(2) In Article 71, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
‘2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, operators may move captive birds from exhibitions other than flight 
exhibitions back to the Member State of origin of the birds in accordance with Article 67(4), point (b).’
(3) In Article 71, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:
‘3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, operators may move captive birds from flight exhibitions back to the 
Member State of origin of the birds in accordance with Article 67(4), point (c).’
(4) In Article 81, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
‘2.
The animal health certificate for captive birds intended for exhibitions, that is issued by the competent authority 
of the Member State of origin in accordance with Article 71(1), shall contain the general information provided for in 
point 1 of Part 1 of Annex VIII and an attestation of compliance with the requirements provided for in Article 67(1) 
and, where birds are collected in a single registered establishment, with the requirements provided for in Article 67(2).’
(5) in Article 91(1), point (e), the following point (iii) is added after point (ii) as follows:
‘(iii) for captive birds moved to an exhibition in another Member State from a single registered establishment pursuant 
to Article 67(2): identity and physical checks of the captive birds and a documentary check of health and 
production records of the registered or approved establishment of origin and of a declaration by the operator of 
that establishment attesting that:
— the captive birds presented for certification have been continuously resident in the establishment of origin 
since hatching or for at least the last 21 days prior to their departure,
— the flock of origin does not present abnormal mortalities with an undetermined cause, and
— within the last 48 hours, the birds of the flock of origin have not shown clinical signs or suspicion of listed 
diseases relevant for the species.’
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 September 2022.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 16/4 
18.1.2023