II
(Non-legislative acts)
REGULATIONS
COUNCIL REGULATION (EU) 2023/407 
of 23 February 2023
amending Regulation (EU) No 36/2012 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in 
Syria 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 215 thereof,
Having regard to the joint proposal of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and of 
the European Commission,
Whereas:
(1)
On 18 January 2012, the Council adopted Decision 2013/255/CFSP (1) and Regulation (EU) No 36/2012 (2)
concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Syria, pursuant to the adoption of Council conclusions in 
which the Council condemned the violence and widespread and systematic gross violations of human rights in Syria.
(2)
In view of the deteriorating situation in Syria and the widespread and systematic violations of human rights and 
international humanitarian law, including the use of chemical weapons against the civilian population, the Council 
has continued to add names to the lists of persons and entities subject to Union restrictive measures.
(3)
The tragic earthquake of 6 February 2023 has exacerbated the dire conditions and increased the suffering of the 
Syrian population.
(4)
In its conclusions of 9 February 2023, the European Council reaffirmed the Union’s readiness to provide further 
assistance to alleviate the suffering in all affected regions. It called on all to ensure humanitarian access to the 
victims of the earthquake in Syria irrespective of where they are and called on the humanitarian community, under 
the auspices of the United Nations, to ensure the speedy delivery of aid.
(5)
Union restrictive measures, including those adopted in view of the situation in Syria, are not meant to stand in the 
way nor impede the supply of humanitarian aid to persons in need. Trade in the majority of sectors between the 
Union and Syria – including in food and medicines – is not restricted by the restrictive measures adopted by the 
Council in view of the situation in Syria. Moreover, as regards individual measures, exceptions are in place to allow 
for funds and economic resources to be made available to designated persons and entities, where such funds or 
economic resources are necessary solely for the purpose of providing humanitarian relief in Syria or assistance to 
the civilian population in Syria. In certain cases, prior authorisation from the relevant national competent authority 
is necessary.
(1) Council Decision 2013/255/CFSP of 31 May 2013 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Syria (OJ L 147, 
1.6.2013, p. 14).
(2) Council Regulation (EU) No 36/2012 of 18 January 2012 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Syria and 
repealing Regulation (EU) No 442/2011 (OJ L 16 19.1.2012, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
23.2.2023 
L 56 I/1  

(6)
In order to respond to the urgency of the humanitarian crisis in Syria exacerbated by the earthquake and with a view 
to facilitating the rapid delivery of aid, it is appropriate to introduce an exemption to the freezing of the assets of, and 
to the restrictions on making funds and economic resources available to, designated natural or legal persons and 
entities, for the benefit of international organisations and certain defined categories of actors involved in 
humanitarian activities and for an initial period of six months.
(7)
The amendments included within this Regulation fall within the scope of the Treaty and therefore regulatory action 
at the level of the Union is necessary in order to implement them, in particular with a view to ensuring their uniform 
application in all Member States.
(8)
Regulation (EU) No 36/2012 should therefore be amended accordingly,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Article 16a of Regulation (EU) No 36/2012 is replaced by the following:
‘Article 16a
1.
The prohibitions set out in Article 14(1) and (2) shall not apply until 25 August 2023 to the making available of 
funds or economic resources necessary to ensure the timely delivery of humanitarian assistance or to support other 
activities that support basic human needs where such assistance and other activities are carried out by:
(a) the United Nations, including its programmes, funds and other entities and bodies, as well as its specialised agencies 
and related organisations;
(b) international organisations;
(c) humanitarian organisations having observer status with the United Nations General Assembly and members of those 
humanitarian organisations;
(d) bilaterally or multilaterally funded non-governmental organisations participating in the United Nations Humanitarian 
Response Plans, Refugee Response Plans, other United Nations appeals or humanitarian clusters coordinated by the 
United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA);
(e) public bodies or legal persons, entities or bodies which receive public funding from the Union or Member States to 
ensure the timely delivery of humanitarian assistance or to support other activities that support basic human needs for 
the civilian population in Syria;
(f)
where not covered by paragraphs (a) to (d), organisations and agencies which are pillar-assessed by the Union and with 
which the Union has signed a financial framework partnership agreement on the basis of which the organisations and 
agencies act as humanitarian partners of the Union;
(g) organisations and agencies to which the Union has granted the Humanitarian Partnership Certificate or which are 
certified or recognised by a Member State in accordance with national procedures;
(h) Member States’ specialised agencies; or by
(i)
the employees, grantees, subsidiaries, or implementing partners of the entities mentioned in points (a) to (h) while and 
to the extent that they are acting in those capacities.
2.
The prohibition set out in Article 14(2) shall not apply to funds or economic resources made available by public 
bodies or by legal persons, entities or bodies which receive public funding from the Union or Member States to provide 
humanitarian relief in Syria or assistance to the civilian population in Syria where the provision of such funds or economic 
resources is in accordance with Article 6a(1).
3.
In cases not covered by paragraphs 1 and 2, and by way of derogation from Article 14(2), the competent authority of 
the Member States, as identified on the websites listed in Annex III, may authorise the making available of certain funds or 
economic resources, under the general and specific terms and conditions it deems appropriate, provided that the funds or 
economic resources are necessary for the sole purpose of providing humanitarian relief in Syria or assistance to the 
civilian population in Syria.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 56 I/2 
23.2.2023  

4.
In cases not covered by paragraphs 1 and 2, and by way of derogation from Article 14(1), the competent authority of 
the Member State, as identified on the websites listed in Annex III, may authorise the release of certain frozen funds or 
economic resources, under the general and specific terms and conditions it deems appropriate, provided that:
(a) the funds or economic resources are necessary for the sole purpose of providing humanitarian relief in Syria or 
assistance to the civilian population in Syria; and
(b) the funds or economic resources are released to the UN for the purpose of delivering or facilitating the delivery of 
assistance in Syria in accordance with the Syrian Humanitarian Response Plan or any successor plan coordinated by 
the UN.
5.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted 
under paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article within two weeks of any authorisation granted.’.
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 February 2023.
For the Council
The President
J. ROSWALL
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
23.2.2023 
L 56 I/3