COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/405 
of 16 March 2020 
specifying the arrangements for, and contents of, the quality reports to be transmitted under 
Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 of the European Parliament and of the Council on integrated farm 
statistics 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on integrated 
farm statistics and repealing Regulations (EC) No 1166/2008 and (EU) No 1337/2011 (1), and in particular Article 11(4) 
thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Article 11(4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 requires the Member States to transmit to the Commission quality 
reports describing the statistical process for each reference year, and allows the Commission to adopt implementing 
acts setting out the practical arrangements for, and the contents of, those reports. 
(2) 
There is a need to ensure common quality reporting for the exchange of quality-related data and metadata. 
(3) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Statistical System 
Committee, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
This Regulation lays down the practical arrangements for, and the contents of, the quality reports that Member States 
transmit to the Commission (Eurostat) in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. 
Article 2 
The quality reports referred to in Article 1 shall contain information on the quality criteria and statistical concepts as set out 
in the Annex to this Regulation. They shall also refer to all cases of non-compliance with those quality criteria. 
Article 3 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
(1) OJ L 200, 7.8.2018, p. 1. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 80/3   

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 16 March 2020.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 80/4                                                                                                                                            
17.3.2020   

ANNEX 
Quality reports – quality criteria and statistical concepts 
(a) The quality reports must include information on all the quality criteria referred to in Article 12(1) of Regulation 
(EC) No 223/2009, as follows: 
1. 
RELEVANCE 
(a) a description of users, their respective needs and a justification of those needs; 
(b) procedures used to measure user satisfaction and produce the statistical results; 
(c) the extent to which the required statistics are available. 
2. 
ACCURACY 
(a) an accuracy assessment that summarises the various dataset components; 
(b) a description of sampling errors; 
(c) a description of any other errors. 
3. 
TIMELINESS AND PUNCTUALITY 
(a) the time-lag between the event or phenomenon described and the data availability (timeliness); 
(b) the time-lag between the target date for data delivery and the actual delivery date (punctuality). 
4. 
ACCESSIBILITY AND CLARITY 
(a) conditions and means by which users can obtain and use the data, e.g. news releases, publications, online databases 
or micro data access; 
(b) conditions and means by which users can interpret the data, e.g. documentation on methodology and quality 
management. 
5. 
COMPARABILITY 
(a) the extent to which statistics are comparable between geographical areas; 
(b) the extent to which statistics are comparable over time. 
6. 
COHERENCE 
(a) the extent to which statistics are reconcilable with data from other sources (cross-domain coherence); 
(b) the extent to which statistics are consistent within a given dataset (internal coherence). 
(b) Member States must also report on: 
1. 
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
(a) the systems and frameworks in place to manage the quality of statistical products and processes; 
(b) their assessment of the quality of the data. 
2. 
DATA REVISION 
(a) the revision policy and, if applicable, why validated data has been revised, e.g. new data sources, new methods or 
other relevant information; 
(b) the dates, size and magnitude of any revisions. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 80/5   

(c) In accordance with Article 11(4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091, the quality reports must include information on 
the statistical process, in particular the methodology and the sampling frame used, as follows: 
1. 
STATISTICAL PRESENTATION 
The following aspects of the disseminated data, which can be displayed as tables, graphs or maps: 
(a) data description; 
(b) classification system; 
(c) sector coverage; 
(d) statistical concepts and definitions; 
(e) statistical unit; 
(f) statistical population; 
(g) reference area (geographical scope); 
(h) time coverage (length of time for which data are available); 
(i) reference period (period covered by the report); 
(j) unit of measurement. 
2. 
STATISTICAL PROCESSING 
The following aspects of all operations performed on data to derive new information: 
(a) sampling frame; 
(b) sampling design (if relevant); 
(c) source data; 
(d) frequency of data collection; 
(e) data collection mode including, if relevant, the questionnaires (in English); 
(f) data validation; 
(g) data compilation; 
(h) adjustment. 
3. 
RELEASE POLICY 
The rules for disseminating the data at national level. 
4. 
FREQUENCY OF DISSEMINATION 
The frequency with which the data are disseminated at national level. 
(d) In line with the statistical principles in Article 2(1) of Regulation (EC) No 223/2009, points (a), (e) and (f), 
Member States must report on: 
1. 
INSTITUTIONAL MANDATE 
(a) legal acts or other agreements that assign responsibility and authority for the collection, processing and 
dissemination of statistics; 
(b) procedures for data sharing and coordination between data-producing entities. 
2. 
CONFIDENTIALITY 
(a) legislative measures or other formal procedures preventing any unauthorised disclosure of data that could directly 
or indirectly lead to the identification of a person or economic entity; 
(b) the rules applying to the treatment of micro data and aggregated data to ensure statistical confidentiality and 
prevent unauthorised disclosure. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 80/6                                                                                                                                            
17.3.2020   

3. 
COST AND BURDEN 
(a) the cost and burden associated with the collection and production of the statistical product; 
(b) the burden on respondents; 
(c) the average duration of farm interviews (where possible and relevant depending on the data collection mode).   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 80/7