COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/1201 
of 14 August 2020 
as regards measures to prevent the introduction into and the spread within the Union of Xylella 
fastidiosa (Wells et al.) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on 
protective measures against pests of plants, amending Regulations (EU) No 228/2013, (EU) No 652/2014 and 
(EU) No 1143/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 69/464/EEC, 
74/647/EEC, 93/85/EEC, 98/57/EC, 2000/29/EC, 2006/91/EC and 2007/33/EC (1), and in particular Article 28(1) and (2) 
thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/789 (2) has been applied since May 2015 with the aim to prevent 
further spread within and introduction into the Union of Xylella fastidiosa (Wells et al.) (‘the specified pest’). That 
Implementing Decision has been updated οn several occasions to take into account the scientific and technical 
evidence made available at the time. 
(2) 
On 15 May 2019, the European Food Safety Authority (‘the Authority’) published a new Scientific Opinion (3) on the 
risk to plant health posed by the specified pest in the Union territory, focusing on potential establishment, short‐ and 
long‐range spread, the length of the asymptomatic period, the impact of the specified pest and an update on risk 
reduction options. On 15 May 2019, the Authority published a scientific report (4) on the effectiveness of in planta 
control measures for the specified pest, confirming as previously stated that there are currently no control measures 
available to eliminate the specified pest from a diseased plant in open field conditions. On 25 June 2019, the 
Authority published a pest survey card (5) on the specified pest providing further elements to ensure more targeted 
survey activities. On 28 April 2020, the Authority updated the database of plant species found infected by the 
specified pest worldwide (6). Moreover, on 8 June 2020, the Authority published the Guidelines for statistically 
sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa (7) that will assist Member States to implement the confidence level, 
the design prevalence proposed and preparation of the survey activities to be carried out within and outside the 
demarcated areas, in the Union territory. 
(3) 
The recent scientific developments, the outcome of the audits carried out by the Commission in the Member States 
concerned and the experience gained during the implementation of Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/789 indicate 
the need to update those measures in order to ensure a more targeted approach for the control of the specified pest 
in the Union territory. 
(1) OJ L 317, 23.11.2016, p. 4. 
(2) Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/789 of 18 May 2015 as regards measures to prevent the introduction into and the 
spread within the Union of Xylella fastidiosa (Wells et al.) (OJ L 125, 21.5.2015, p. 36). 
(3) EFSA Journal 2019;17(5):5665, 200 pp. https://doi.org/10.2903/j.efsa.2019.5665 
(4) EFSA Journal 2019;17(5):5666, 17 pp. https://doi.org/10.2903/j.efsa.2019.5666 
(5) EFSA Supporting publication 2019:EN-1667. 53 pp. https://doi.org/10.2903/sp.efsa.2019.EN-1667 
(6) EFSA Journal 2020;18(4):6114. https://doi.org/10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6114 
(7) EFSA Supporting publication 2020:EN-1873. 76 pp. https://doi.org/10.2903/sp.efsa.2020.EN-1873 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/2                                                                                                                                           
17.8.2020   
(4) 
For the purpose of clarity, the definition of host plants should refer to all the plant species or genera found infected 
by the specified pest worldwide, while the definition of specified plants should only refer to those host plants which 
have been found infected by a particular subspecies of the specified pest. In this context, and in order to ensure a 
certain proportionality, some measures of this Regulation should only apply to host plants and some others only to 
specified plants. 
(5) 
In order to ensure a better overview of the presence of the specified pest, Member States should intensify the annual 
surveys for that presence in line with the latest scientific and technical information. 
(6) 
In order to eradicate the specified pest and prevent its further spread in the rest of the Union, Member States should 
establish demarcated areas consisting of an infected zone and a buffer zone, and apply eradication measures. The 
width of the buffer zones should be proportionate to the level of risk and the spreading capacity of the vector. 
(7) 
However, in cases of isolated occurrences of the specified pest, the establishment of a demarcated area should not be 
required if the specified pest can be eliminated from those plants, recently introduced, where it was found to be 
present. This will be the most proportionate approach as long as the surveys carried out in the area concerned lead 
to the conclusion that the specified pest has not been established. 
(8) 
In certain areas of the Union, it is appropriate to conclude that the eradication of the specified pest is no longer 
possible. The Member States concerned should therefore be allowed to apply measures for the containment of that 
pest within those areas, instead of eradication. Those measures should be less stringent than the measures for 
eradication, but they should ensure a diligent survey approach and more precautionary actions in the respective 
buffer zones and at the outer part of the infected zones, in order to prevent the spread of the specified pest to the 
rest of the Union territory. 
(9) 
In order to ensure the immediate removal of the infected plants and prevent further spread of the specified pest in 
the rest of the Union territory, the monitoring of the demarcated areas should be carried out annually at the most 
appropriate time of the year. The monitoring should also focus on vectors present in the demarcated area so as to 
determine the risk of further spreading by vectors and to evaluate the effectiveness of the phytosanitary control 
measures applied against the vector population, in all its stages. 
(10) 
Experience confirms, in line with the latest scientific evidences, that vector control, together with the immediate 
removal of the bacterial inoculum, is key to prevent further spread of the specified pest within the rest of the Union 
territory. Therefore, Member States should ensure proper implementation of the phytosanitary treatments, prior to 
the removal of the plants, as well as during the year, against the vector population, in all its stages. Those treatments 
should include efficient chemical, biological or mechanical treatments against the vectors, with preference to non- 
chemical solutions, wherever possible. 
(11) 
Plant species known to be susceptible to the subspecies of the specified pest detected in the demarcated area and 
which have been grown for at least part of their life in that demarcated area, or which have been moved through 
such an area, are more likely to have been infected with the specified pest. Therefore, it is proportionate to establish 
special requirements for the movement within the Union only as regards specified plants. It is also proportionate to 
apply less stringent requirements for the movement of those plants within the infected zones, or from the infected 
zones to the buffer zones, than the requirements applied for their movement out of the demarcated areas. 
(12) 
With the aim of facilitating trade while protecting plant health, and taking into account the nature of the specified 
pest, host plants originating in a third country where that pest is not present should, when introduced into the 
Union, be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate including an additional declaration stating that that country is 
free from the specified pest. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                           
L 269/3   
(13) 
In order to ensure that host plants introduced into the Union from areas of third countries where the specified pest is 
known to be present, are free from the specified pest, the requirements for their introduction into the Union should 
be similar to those set out for movement of specified plants originating in demarcated areas. 
(14) 
In light of the latest scientific and technical evidence, survey activities carried out by third countries to confirm the 
absence of the specified pest in areas of their territory or in production sites authorised for export to the Union 
should be also intensified. 
(15) 
Rules should be established concerning official checks on movements of the specified plants out of the demarcated 
areas to the rest of the Union territory, and the introduction into the Union of host plants from third countries. 
Those rules should be proportionate, effective and take into account the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council (8), which became applicable on 14 December 2019. 
(16) 
Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/789 should therefore be repealed. 
(17) 
As regards survey activities carried out in areas of the Union territory where the pest is known not to occur or where 
derogation for the establishment of the demarcated areas is applied, as well as in areas or production sites of third 
countries, it is appropriate to allow sufficient time to Member States and third countries to design those activities so 
that they provide the level of statistical confidence required. The requirements relating to those survey activities 
should therefore apply from 1 January 2023. 
(18) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on 
Plants, Animals, Food, and Feed, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
CHAPTER I 
DEFINITIONS 
Article 1 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 
(a) ‘specified pest’ means Xylella fastidiosa (Wells et al.) and any of its subspecies; 
(b) ‘host plants’ means all plants for planting, other than seeds, belonging to the genera or species listed in Annex I; 
(8) Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official 
activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant 
protection products, amending Regulations (EC) No 999/2001, (EC) No 396/2005, (EC) No 1069/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009, 
(EU) No 1151/2012, (EU) No 652/2014, (EU) 2016/429 and (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council 
Regulations (EC) No 1/2005 and (EC) No 1099/2009 and Council Directives 98/58/EC, 1999/74/EC, 2007/43/EC, 2008/119/EC 
and 2008/120/EC, and repealing Regulations (EC) No 854/2004 and (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council, Council Directives 89/608/EEC, 89/662/EEC, 90/425/EEC, 91/496/EEC, 96/23/EC, 96/93/EC and 97/78/EC and Council 
Decision 92/438/EEC (Official Controls Regulation) (OJ L 95, 7.4.2017, p. 1). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/4                                                                                                                                           
17.8.2020   
(c) ‘specified plants’ means host plants for planting, other than seeds, belonging to the genera or species listed in Annex II 
and known to be susceptible to the specific subspecies of the specified pest. 
CHAPTER II 
ANNUAL SURVEYS FOR THE PRESENCE OF THE SPECIFIED PEST AND CONTINGENCY PLANS 
Article 2 
Surveys of the specified pest in the territories of the Member States 
1.
Member States shall conduct annual surveys of the host plants for the detection of the specified pest in their territory. 
2.
Those surveys shall be carried out by the competent authorities, or under the official supervision of the competent 
authorities. 
3.
Those surveys shall be performed on the basis of the level of risk. They shall take place in open air, including cropping 
fields, orchards, vineyards, as well as nurseries, garden centres and/or trading centres, natural areas and other relevant 
locations. 
4.
Those surveys shall consist in the collection of samples and testing of plants for planting. Taking into account the 
European Food Safety Authority’s (Authority) Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, 
the survey design and sampling scheme used shall be able to identify within the Member State concerned, with at least 
80 % of confidence, a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %. 
5.
Those surveys shall be carried out at appropriate times of the year with regard to the possibility to detect the specified 
pest, taking into account the biology of that pest and its vectors, the presence and biology of host plants, and the scientific 
and technical information referred to in the Authority’s Pest Survey Card on Xylella fastidiosa. 
6.
The presence of the specified pest shall be monitored by one of the molecular tests listed in Annex IV. In case of 
positive results detected in areas other than the demarcated areas, the presence of the specified pest shall be confirmed by 
one more positive molecular test listed in that Annex, targeting different parts of the genome. Those tests shall be 
performed on the same plant sample or, if appropriate for the molecular confirmatory test used, on the same plant extract. 
7.
The identification of the subspecies of the specified pest shall be carried out on each plant species that is found 
infected by the specified pest in the demarcated area concerned. That identification shall be carried out by using the 
molecular tests listed in Section B of Annex IV. 
8.
Member States shall report the results of the surveys referred to in paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 22(3) of 
Regulation (EU) 2016/2031. 
Article 3 
Contingency plans 
1.
Each Member State shall establish a contingency plan. That contingency plan shall set out the actions to be taken in its 
territory concerning: 
(a) the eradication of the specified pest, as set out in Articles 7 to 11; 
(b) the movements of specified plants within the Union, as set out in Articles 19 to 26; 
(c) the official checks to be carried out on movements of specified plants within the Union and of host plants into the 
Union, as set out in Articles 32 and 33. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                           
L 269/5   
Each Member State shall update its contingency plan, as appropriate, by 31 December of each year. Contingency plans 
established under Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/789 shall be updated by 31 December 2020. 
2.
In addition to the elements referred to in Article 25(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031, the contingency plan shall 
include all of the following elements: 
(a) the minimum resources to be made available and the procedures for making those additional resources available in case 
of a confirmed or suspected presence of the specified pest; 
(b) rules detailing the procedures for identifying the owners of the plants to be removed, for notifying the order of removal 
and for accessing private properties. 
CHAPTER III 
DEMARCATED AREAS 
Article 4 
Establishment of demarcated areas 
1.
Where the presence of the specified pest is officially confirmed, the Member State concerned shall without delay 
establish a demarcated area. 
Where only the presence of one or more particular subspecies of the specified pest is confirmed, the Member State 
concerned may demarcate an area with regard to those subspecies only. 
Where the confirmation of the presence of a subspecies is pending, the Member State concerned shall demarcate that area 
with regard to the specified pest and all of its possible subspecies. 
2.
The demarcated area shall consist of an infected zone and a buffer zone. 
The infected zone shall have a radius of at least 50 m around the plant found infected by the specified pest. 
The buffer zone shall be of the following width: 
(a) at least 2,5 km in the case of an infected zone established for the purpose of taking the eradication measures referred to 
in Articles 7 to 11; 
(b) at least 5 km in the case of an infected zone established for the purpose of taking the containment measures referred to 
in Articles 12 to 17. 
3.
The Commission shall update and publish a list of the demarcated areas established by Member States, as notified 
pursuant to Article 18(6) of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031. 
Article 5 
Derogations for the establishment of demarcated areas 
1.
By way of derogation from Article 4, the buffer zone surrounding the infected zone established for the purpose of 
eradication may be reduced to a width of no less than 1 km, where there is a high degree of confidence that the initial 
presence of the specified pest did not result in its spread and where all of the following conditions have been fulfilled: 
(a) all specified plants located in the infected zone, irrespective of their health status, have been immediately sampled and 
removed; 
(b) no other plants have been found infected by the specified pest in the infected zone since the eradication measures have 
been taken, on the basis of official tests carried out at least once during the course of the year, taking into account the 
Authority’s Pest Survey Card on Xylella fastidiosa; 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/6                                                                                                                                           
17.8.2020   
(c) a survey has been carried out at least once during the first year following the identification of the specified pest in a 
zone with a width of at least 2,5 km surrounding the infected zone, which shows that the specified pest has not been 
found present in that zone. The Member State concerned shall sample and test the host plants located in that zone. For 
that purpose, and taking into account the Authority’s Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella 
fastidiosa, the survey design and sampling scheme shall be able to identify with at least 90 % confidence a level of 
presence of infected plants of 1 %, taking into account that the first 400 m surrounding the infected plants has a 
higher risk compared to the other part of that area; 
(d) no vectors carrying the specified pest have been detected in the infected zone and its immediate vicinity since the 
eradication measures have been taken, on the basis of tests carried out twice during the flight season of the vector, and 
in accordance with International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures. Those tests shall lead to the conclusion that the 
natural spread of the specified pest is excluded. 
2.
When reducing the width of the buffer zone pursuant to paragraph 1, the Member State concerned shall immediately 
notify the Commission and the other Member States of the justification for that reduction. 
3.
By way of derogation from Article 4, the Member State concerned may decide not to establish a demarcated area 
immediately, where all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) there is evidence that the specified pest was recently introduced into the area with the plants on which it was found, or 
that the specified pest has been found in a site with physical protection from the vectors of that pest; 
(b) the results of inspection activities indicate that those plants were infected before their introduction into the area 
concerned; 
(c) no vectors carrying the specified pest have been detected, on the basis of tests carried out in the vicinity of those plants. 
4.
In the case referred to in paragraph 3, the Member State concerned shall: 
(a) carry out, in the area where the presence of the specified pest was first confirmed, an annual survey for at least 
two years to determine whether any other plants have been infected and whether any further measures should be taken; 
(b) notify to the Commission and the other Member States the justification for not establishing a demarcated area, and the 
outcome of the survey referred to in point (a) as soon as it becomes available. 
Article 6 
Lifting of the demarcated areas 
1.
Where, based on the surveys referred to in Article 10, the specified pest has not been detected in a demarcated area 
for a period of four years, this demarcation may be lifted. In such cases, the Member State concerned shall notify the 
Commission and other Member States. 
2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, in the case where the Member State concerned has reduced the buffer zone 
to a width of no less than 1 km in accordance with Article 5(1), the Member State may lift the demarcated area after 
12 months since its initial establishment, where both of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) as a result of the measures taken pursuant to Article 5(1), it is concluded with a high degree of confidence that the 
initial presence of the specified pest was an isolated case and no further spread occurred in the respective demarcated 
area; 
(b) as practically close to the time of lifting, official tests have been carried out within the demarcated area, taking into 
account the Authority’s Pest Survey Card on Xylella fastidiosa. For that purpose, and taking into account the Authority’s 
Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and sampling scheme 
shall be able to identify with at least 95 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                           
L 269/7   
3.
Where a demarcated area is lifted pursuant to paragraph 2, the specified plants located in the previously established 
demarcated area shall be subject to intensive surveys during the following two years. For that purpose, and taking into 
account the Authority’s Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and 
sampling scheme shall be able to identify with at least 80 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %. 
4.
When lifting the demarcated area after 12 months since its initial identification, the Member State concerned shall 
immediately notify the Commission and the other Member States of the justification for that lifting. 
CHAPTER IV 
ERADICATION MEASURES 
Article 7 
Removal of plants 
1.
The Member State concerned shall immediately remove from the infected zone: 
(a) plants known to be infected by the specified pest; 
(b) plants showing symptoms indicating possible infection by that pest or suspected to be infected by that pest; 
(c) plants which belong to the same species as that of the infected plant, regardless of their health status; 
(d) plants of other species than that of the infected plant, which have been found infected in other parts of the demarcated 
area; 
(e) specified plants, other than the ones referred to in points (c) and (d), which have not been immediately subjected to 
sampling and molecular testing and have not been found free from the specified pest. 
2.
When removing the plants referred to in paragraph 1, the Member State concerned shall take all necessary 
precautions into account, and shall organise the removal on the basis of the level of risk posed by those plants 
3.
By way of derogation from points (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 1, Member States may decide that individual specified 
plants officially designated as plants with historic value do not need to be removed, provided that all of the following 
conditions have been fulfilled: 
(a) the specified plants concerned are subject to annual inspection, sampling and testing by one of the molecular tests 
listed in Annex IV and it is confirmed that they are not infected by the specified pest; 
(b) the individual specified plants or the area concerned are subject to appropriate phytosanitary treatments against the 
vector population of the specified pest, in all its stages. Those treatments may include chemical, biological or 
mechanical methods, taking into account the local conditions. 
Article 8 
Measures against the vectors of the specified pest 
1.
The Member State concerned shall apply appropriate phytosanitary treatments, in the infected zone, against the 
vector population of the specified pest, in all its stages. It shall apply those treatments prior to and during the removal of 
the plants referred to in Article 7(1). Those treatments shall include efficient chemical, biological or mechanical treatments 
against the vectors, taking into account the local conditions. 
2.
The Member State concerned shall apply agricultural practices for the control of the vector population of the 
specified pest, in all its stages, in the infected zone and in the buffer zone. It shall apply those practices at the most 
appropriate time of the year, regardless of the removal of the plants concerned. Those practices shall include efficient 
chemical, biological or mechanical treatments against the vectors, as appropriate, taking into account the local conditions. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/8                                                                                                                                           
17.8.2020   
Article 9 
Destruction of plants 
1.
The Member State concerned shall destroy the plants and parts of plants referred to in Article 7(1), in a manner 
ensuring that the specified pest is not spread, in situ or in a nearby location designated for this purpose within the infected 
zone or, provided that those plants or parts of plants are covered by net against the vectors, at the shortest distance from 
that location. 
2.
The Member State concerned may decide, on the basis of the risk level, to limit the destruction to the branches and 
foliage only and subject the related wood to phytosanitary treatment as referred to in Article 8(1). The root system of those 
plants shall be either removed or devitalised, with an appropriate phytosanitary treatment to avoid resprouting. 
Article 10 
Annual surveillance of the demarcated area 
In the entire demarcated area, the Member State concerned shall monitor, at the most appropriate times, the presence of the 
specified pest by annual surveys, in accordance with Article 2(5) and (6), and taking into account the information referred 
to in the Authority’s Pest Survey Card on Xylella fastidiosa. 
In the infected zones, the Member State concerned shall sample and test the host plants, including the specified plants 
which have not been removed pursuant to Article 7(1). For that purpose, and taking into account the Authority’s 
Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and sampling scheme shall 
be able to identify with at least 90 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 0,5 %. 
In buffer zones, the Member State concerned shall sample and test the host plants, as well as other plants showing 
symptoms indicating possible infection or suspected to be infected by that pest. For that purpose, and taking into account 
the Authority’s Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and sampling 
scheme shall be able to identify with at least 90 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %, taking into 
account that the first 400 m surrounding the infected zones has a higher risk. 
The Member State concerned shall also monitor the presence of the specified pest in the vectors located in the demarcated 
area in order to determine the risk of further spreading posed by vectors and to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
phytosanitary control measures applied in accordance with Article 8. 
Article 11 
Other relevant measures for the eradication of the specified pest 
1.
The Member State concerned shall take any other measure which may contribute to the eradication of the specified 
pest, in accordance with International Standard for Phytosanitary Measure (‘ISPM’) No 9 (9) and to contributing to applying 
an integrated approach in accordance with the principles set out in ISPM No 14 (10). 
2.
The Member State concerned shall take measures addressing any particularity or complication that could reasonably 
be expected to prevent, hinder or delay eradication, in particular those related to the adequate destruction of all plants that 
are infected or suspected of infection, or to the accessibility of their location, public or private ownership or the person or 
entity responsible for them. 
(9) Guidelines for pest eradication programmes – Reference Standard ISPM No 9 by the Secretariat of the International Plant Protection 
Convention, Rome. Published 15 December 2011. 
(10) The use of integrated measures in a systems approach for pest risk management – Reference Standard ISPM No 14 by the Secretariat 
of the International Plant Protection Convention, Rome. Published 8 January 2014. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                           
L 269/9   
3.
The Member State concerned shall carry out appropriate investigations to identify the origin of the infection. It shall 
trace the host plants associated with the case of infection concerned, including those which were moved before a 
demarcated area was established. The results of such investigations shall be communicated to the Commission and the 
Member States in which those plants concerned originate, to the Member States through which those plants have moved 
and to the Member States where those plants have moved into. 
CHAPTER V 
CONTAINMENT MEASURES 
Article 12 
General provisions 
The competent authority of the Member State concerned may decide to apply the containment measures set out in Articles 
13 to 17, instead of eradication measures, in an infected zone listed in Annex III. 
Article 13 
Removal of plants in an infected zone listed in Annex III 
1.
The Member State concerned shall remove all plants which have been found to be infected by the specified pest on the 
basis of the monitoring referred to in Article 15(2). 
That removal shall take place immediately after the official identification of the presence of the specified pest or, if the 
specified pest is detected outside the flight season of the vector, that removal shall take place before the next flight season 
of the vector. All necessary precautions shall be taken to avoid spreading of the specified pest and its vectors during and 
after removal. 
2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Member State concerned may decide, for scientific purposes, not to 
remove plants which have been found to be infected by the specified pest in the sites of plants with particular cultural and 
social value, referred to in Article 15(2)(b). 
Article 14 
Measures against the vectors of the specified pest in the infected zones listed in Annex III 
1.
The Member State concerned shall apply appropriate phytosanitary treatments against the vector population of the 
specified pest, in all its stages, on the plants referred to in Article 13(1) prior to their removal and around the plants 
referred to in Article 13(2). Those treatments shall include efficient chemical, biological or mechanical treatments against 
the vectors, taking into account the local conditions. 
2.
In the areas referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 15(2), the Member State concerned shall apply agricultural 
practices for the control of the vector population of the specified pest, in all its stages, at the most appropriate time of each 
year. Those practices shall include efficient chemical, biological or mechanical treatments against the vectors, taking into 
account the local conditions. 
Article 15 
Annual surveillance of the infected zones listed in Annex III 
1.
The Member State concerned shall, at least in the parts of the infected zone referred to in paragraph 2, immediately 
sample and test, within a radius of 50 m around the plants which have been found to be infected by the specified pest, the 
following plants: 
(a) all specified plants which belong to the species of the specified plants which have been found infected in the same 
demarcated area; and 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/10                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
(b) all other plants showing symptoms indicating possible infection by that pest or suspected to be infected by that pest. 
2.
The Member State concerned shall monitor, at the most appropriate times, the presence of the specified pest by 
annual surveys, taking into account the information referred to in the Authority’s Pest Survey Card on Xylella fastidiosa. 
That monitoring shall take place at least in the following parts of the infected zone listed in Annex III: 
(a) within an area measuring at least 5 km from the border of the infected zone with the buffer zone; 
(b) in the proximity of the sites of plants with particular cultural and social value located outside the area referred to in 
point (a) and designated accordingly by the Member State. 
In those parts of the infected zone, the Member State concerned shall carry out sampling and testing of the species of host 
plants found infected in the demarcated area, in accordance with Article 2(6). For that purpose, taking into account the 
Authority’s Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and sampling 
scheme shall be able to identify with at least 90 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 0,7 %. It shall also 
sample and test the vector population for the presence of the specified pest. 
3.
Point (a) of paragraph 2 shall not apply in the case of islands which are entirely under containment measures and are 
situated more than 5 km to the nearest Union land territory. 
4.
In buffer zones, the Member State concerned shall sample and test the host plants, as well as other plants showing 
symptoms indicating possible infection by that pest or suspected to be infected by that pest. For that purpose, taking into 
account the Authority’s Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and 
sampling scheme shall be able to identify with at least 90 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %, taking 
into account that the first 400 m adjacent to the infected zones pose a higher risk. 
5.
The Member State shall monitor the presence of the specified pests in vectors in the parts of the infected zone referred 
to in paragraph 2 and in the buffer zone in order to determine the risk of further spreading posed by vectors and to evaluate 
the effectiveness of the phytosanitary control measures applied in accordance with Article 14. 
Article 16 
Destruction of plants 
1.
The Member State concerned shall, in situ or in a nearby location designated for this purpose within the infected zone 
listed in Annex III, destroy plants and parts of plants which have been found to be infected by the specified pest, in a 
manner ensuring that the specified pest is not spread. 
2.
The Member State concerned may decide to limit the destruction to branches and foliage only and subject the related 
wood to appropriate phytosanitary treatments in accordance with Article 14(1), where it concludes that those plants do not 
pose any risk for further spreading of the specified pest. The root system of those plants shall be either removed or 
devitalised with an appropriate phytosanitary treatment to avoid resprouting. 
Article 17 
Other relevant measures for the containment of the specified pest 
The Member State concerned shall take measures addressing any particularity or complication that could reasonably be 
expected to prevent, hinder or delay containment, in particular those related to the adequate destruction of all plants that 
are infected or suspected of infection, or to the accessibility of their location, public or private ownership or the person or 
entity responsible for them. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/11   
CHAPTER VI 
PLANTING OF SPECIFIED PLANTS IN INFECTED ZONES 
Article 18 
Authorisation concerning the planting of specified plants in infected zones 
The planting of specified plants in infected zones may only be authorised by the Member State concerned in one of the 
following cases: 
(a) those specified plants are grown in insect-proof sites of production free from the specified pest and its vectors; 
(b) those specified plants preferably belong to varieties assessed as being resistant or tolerant to the specified pest and are 
planted in the infected zones listed in Annex III, but outside the area referred to in Article 15(2)(a); 
(c) those specified plants belong to the same species of plants which have been tested and found free from the specified 
pest on the basis of the survey activities carried out for at least the past two years in accordance with Article 10 and 
are planted in the infected zones established for the purpose of eradication. 
CHAPTER VII 
MOVEMENT WITHIN THE UNION OF SPECIFIED PLANTS 
Article 19 
Movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zones into the buffer zones, of specified 
plants which have been grown in authorised production sites located in that demarcated area 
The movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zones into the buffer zones, of specified plants 
which have been grown in a production site located in that demarcated area, may only be allowed where all of the 
following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the specified plants have been grown during their entire production cycle in a site that has been authorised in 
accordance with Article 24 or have been present in such a site for at least the last three years; 
(b) throughout the time of growth of the specified plants, neither the presence of the specified pest nor that of its vectors 
were found in the site; 
(c) the specified plants are subject to phytosanitary treatments against the vector population, in all its stages, at appropriate 
times of the year to maintain freedom from vectors of the specified pest. Those treatments shall include, as appropriate, 
efficient chemical, biological or mechanical methods, taking into account the local conditions; 
(d) the specified plants are transported through or within the demarcated area in closed containers or packaging, ensuring 
that infection with the specified pest or any of its vectors cannot occur; 
(e) as close as possible to the time of movement, the specified plants have been subjected to molecular testing for the 
presence of the specified pest on the basis of a test listed in Annex IV, using a sampling scheme able to identify with at 
least 80 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/12                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
Article 20 
Movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zones into the buffer zones, of specified 
plants which have never been found infected in that demarcated area 
The movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zone into the buffer zones, of specified plants 
which have never been found infected in that demarcated area, may only be allowed where all of the following conditions 
are fulfilled: 
(a) the specified plants have been grown in a site that belongs to a professional operator registered in accordance with 
Article 65 of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031; 
(b) the specified plants belong to species of plants which have been grown for at least part of their life in a demarcated area 
and have been subjected, during three years from the establishment of the demarcated area, to survey activities as 
referred to in Articles 10 and 15 and never found to be infected with the specified pest; 
(c) the species of the specified plants referred to in point (b) are published in the Commission database of host plants 
which are not known to be infected in that specific demarcated area; 
(d) the specified plants are subject to phytosanitary treatments against the vector population, in all its stages, at appropriate 
times of the year to maintain freedom from vectors of the specified pest. Those treatments shall include, as appropriate, 
efficient chemical, biological or mechanical methods based on local conditions; 
(e) as practically close to the time of movement as possible, the lots of the specified plants were subjected to inspection and 
molecular testing by the competent authority, using a sampling scheme able to identify with at least 95 % confidence a 
level of presence of infected plants of 1 %; 
(f) as practically close to the time of movement as possible, the lots of the specified plants were subjected to phytosanitary 
treatments against all vectors of the specified pest. 
Article 21 
Movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zones into the buffer zones, of specified 
plants which have been grown for the entire production cycle in vitro in that demarcated area 
The movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zones into the buffer zones, of specified plants 
which have been grown for the entire production cycle in vitro in that demarcated area, may only be allowed where all of 
the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the specified plants have been grown for their entire production cycle in a site that has been authorised in accordance 
with Article 24; 
(b) the specified plants have been grown in a transparent container under sterile conditions and fulfil one of the following 
conditions: 
(i) 
they have been grown from seeds; 
(ii) they have been propagated, under sterile conditions, from mother plants which have spent their entire lives in an 
area of the Union territory free from the specified pest and which have been tested and found free from the 
specified pest; 
(iii) they have been propagated, under sterile conditions, from mother plants which have been grown in a site fulfilling 
the conditions laid down in Article 19 and which have been tested and found free from the specified pest using a 
sampling scheme able to identify with at least 95 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %; 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/13   
(c) the specified plants are transported through or within demarcated areas in a container under sterile conditions that 
precludes the possibility of infection by the specified pest through its vectors. 
Article 22 
Movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zones into the buffer zones, of dormant 
plants of Vitis which have been grown for part of their life in that demarcated area 
Movement out of a demarcated area, and from the respective infected zones into the buffer zones, of dormant plants of Vitis 
intended for planting, other than seeds, which have been grown for part of their life in that demarcated area and are listed as 
specified plants for that demarcated area, may only be allowed where all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the plants have been grown in a site that belongs to an operator registered in accordance with Article 65 of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/2031; 
(b) as practically close to the time of movement as possible, the plants have undergone an appropriate thermotherapy 
treatment in a treatment facility authorised and supervised by the competent authority for that purpose, whereby the 
dormant plants are submerged for 45 minutes in water heated to 50 °C. 
Article 23 
Movement within the infected zones, within the buffer zones, and from the buffer zones into their respective 
infected zones, of specified plants which have been grown for part of their life in a demarcated area 
The movement within the infected zones, within the buffer zones, and from the buffer zones into their respective infected 
zones, of specified plants which have been grown for at least part of their life in a demarcated area may only be allowed 
where all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the specified plants have been grown in a site that belongs to an operator registered in accordance with Article 65 of 
Regulation (EU) 2016/2031; 
(b) that site is subject to annual sampling and testing by the competent authority for the presence of the specified pest, 
taking into account the information set out in the Authority’s Pest Survey Card on Xylella fastidiosa; 
(c) the results of the annual inspection and of the testing of a representative sample confirm the absence of the specified 
pest; 
(d) the specified plants are subject to phytosanitary treatments against the vector population, in all its stages, at appropriate 
times of the year to maintain freedom from vectors of the specified pest. Those treatments shall include, as appropriate, 
efficient chemical, biological or mechanical methods, taking into account the local conditions; 
(e) the professional operators shall ask the person receiving those plants to sign a declaration that those plants are not 
going to be moved out of those zones. 
Article 24 
Authorisation of production sites 
1.
The competent authority may only authorise a production site for the purposes of Articles 19 and 21 where it fulfils 
all of the following conditions: 
(a) it is registered in accordance with Article 65 of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031; 
(b) it has been authorised by the competent authority as a site physically protected against the specified pest and its vectors; 
(c) it has been subjected annually to at least two inspections by the competent authority, at the most appropriate time. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/14                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
2.
Where, during the annual inspections, the competent authorities detect the presence of the specified pest, or damages 
to the physical protection referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1, they shall immediately revoke the authorisation of the site 
and temporarily suspend the movement of the specified plants out of the demarcated areas concerned, and from the 
respective infected zones into the buffer zones. 
3.
Each Member State shall establish and update a list of all sites authorised in accordance with paragraph 1. 
It shall transmit that list to the Commission and the other Member States immediately after establishing or updating that 
list. 
Article 25 
Movement within the Union of specified plants which have never been grown inside a demarcated area 
1.
Specified plants which have never been grown inside a demarcated area may only be moved within the Union where 
they have been grown in a site that fulfils the following conditions: 
(a) it belongs to a professional operator registered in accordance with Article 65 of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031 and is 
subject to annual inspection by the competent authority; 
(b) it is subject, as appropriate for the level of risk, to sampling and testing for the presence of the specified pest, using a 
test listed in Annex IV and taking into account the information set out in the Authority’s Pest Survey Card on Xylella 
fastidiosa. 
2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, plants for planting, other than seeds, of Coffea, Lavandula dentata L., Nerium 
oleander L., Olea europaea L., Polygala myrtifolia L. and Prunus dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb, may only be moved for the first time 
within the Union where the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) they have been grown in a site that is subject to annual inspection by the competent authority; 
(b) that site is subject to sampling and testing for the presence of the specified pest, taking into account the information set 
out in the Authority Pest Survey Card on Xylella fastidiosa and using a sampling scheme able to identify with at least 
80 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %. 
Article 26 
Movement within the Union of pre-basic mother plants or pre-basic material, which have been grown outside a 
demarcated area 
Pre-basic mother plants as defined in Article 1(3) of Commission Implementing Directive 2014/98/EU (11) or pre-basic 
material as defined in Article 2(5) of Council Directive 2008/90/EC (12) which belong to the species Juglans regia L., Olea 
europaea L., Prunus amygdalus Batsch, P. amygdalus x P. persica, P. armeniaca L., P. avium (L.) L., P. cerasus L., P. domestica L., P. 
domestica x P. salicina, P. dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb, P. persica (L.) Batsch, and P. salicina Lindley and which have been grown 
outside a demarcated area and spent at least part of their life outside insect-proof facilities, may only be moved within the 
Union where they are accompanied by a plant passport and the following conditions have been fulfilled: 
(a) they have been certified in accordance with Article 1 of Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2017/925 (13); 
(11) Commission Implementing Directive 2014/98/EU of 15 October 2014 implementing Council Directive 2008/90/EC as regards 
specific requirements for the genus and species of fruit plants referred to in Annex I thereto, specific requirements to be met by 
suppliers and detailed rules concerning official inspections, OJ L 298, 16.10.2014, p. 22. 
(12) Council Directive 2008/90/EC of 29 September 2008 on the marketing of fruit plant propagating material and fruit plants intended 
for fruit production, OJ L 267, 8.10.2008, p. 8. 
(13) Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2017/925 of 29 May 2017 temporarily authorising certain Member States to certify pre- 
basic material of certain species of fruit plants, produced in the field under non-insect proof conditions, and repealing Implementing 
Decision (EU) 2017/167, OJ L 140, 31.5.2017, p. 7. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/15   
(b) within the shortest possible time prior to their movement, they have been subjected to visual inspection, sampling and 
molecular testing for the presence of the specified pest carried out in accordance with International Standards for 
Phytosanitary Measures. 
Article 27 
Plant passports 
The plants referred to in Articles 19 to 26 shall only be moved within the Union if accompanied by a plant passport, subject 
to the requirements of Articles 78 to 95 of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031. 
In the case of the specified plants referred to in Article 23, the following additional conditions shall apply: 
(a) in the case where they move within the infected zones only, the indication ‘Infected Zone – XYLEFA’ shall be included 
next to the traceability code referred to in paragraph 1(e) of Part A of Annex VII to Regulation (EU) 2016/2031; 
(b) in the case where they move within the buffer zone, or from the buffer zone into the infected zone, the indication 
‘Buffer Zone and Infected Zone – XYLEFA’ shall be included next to the traceability code referred to in paragraph 1 (e) 
of Part A of Annex VII to Regulation (EU) 2016/2031. 
CHAPTER VIII 
INTRODUCTION INTO THE UNION OF HOST PLANTS 
Article 28 
Introduction into the Union of host plants originating in a third country where the specified pest is known not to 
be present 
Host plants originating in a third country where the specified pest is known not to be present, may only be introduced into 
the Union where the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the national plant protection organisation of the third country concerned has communicated in writing to the 
Commission that the specified pest is known not to be present in the country on the basis of inspection, sampling and 
molecular testing by the competent authority, using a test listed in Annex IV, and in accordance with relevant 
International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures. Taking into account the Authority’s Guidelines for statistically 
sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and sampling scheme used are able to identify with 
at least 80 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants at national level of 1 %; 
(b) the host plants are accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate stating under the rubric ‘Additional Declaration’ that the 
specified pest is not present in the country; 
(c) host plants have been grown in a site that is subject to annual inspection by the competent authority and, as 
appropriate for the level of risk, with sampling and testing, listed in Annex IV, carried out at the appropriate times on 
those plants for the presence of the specified pest; 
(d) plants for planting, other than seeds, of Coffea, Lavandula dentata L., Nerium oleander L., Olea europaea L., Polygala 
myrtifolia L. and Prunus dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb, have been grown in a site that is subject to annual inspection by the 
competent authority, with sampling and testing, listed in Annex IV, carried out at the appropriate times on those 
plants for the presence of the specified pest, using a sampling scheme able to identify with at least 80 % confidence a 
level of presence of infected plants of 1 %; 
(e) on entry into the Union, the host plants have been checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 33 
and the presence of the specified pest has not been found. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/16                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
Article 29 
Introduction into the Union of host plants originating in a pest free area of an infected country 
Host plants originating in a third country where the specified pest is known to be present may only be introduced into the 
Union where all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the host plants originate in an area which has been declared to be free from the specified pest, by the national plant 
protection organisation concerned in accordance with the relevant International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures 
and on the basis of official surveys based on sampling and testing, using a test listed in Annex IV. Taking into account 
the Authority’s Guidelines for statistically sound and risk-based surveys of Xylella fastidiosa, the survey design and 
sampling scheme used are able to identify with at least 80 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %; 
(b) the national plant protection organisation of the third country concerned has communicated in writing to the 
Commission the name of that area; 
(c) the host plants are accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate stating under the rubric ‘place of origin’ that the host 
plants concerned have spent their entire life in the area referred to in point (a), with specific reference to the name of 
that area; 
(d) host plants have been grown in a site that is subject to annual inspection by the competent authority and, as 
appropriate for the level of risk, with sampling and testing, listed in Annex IV, carried out at the appropriate times on 
those plants for the presence of the specified pest; 
(e) plants for planting, other than seeds, of Coffea, Lavandula dentata L., Nerium oleander L., Olea europaea L., Polygala 
myrtifolia L. and Prunus dulcis (Mill.) D.A. Webb, have been grown in a site that is subject to annual inspection by the 
competent authority, with sampling and testing, listed in Annex IV, carried out at the appropriate times on those 
plants for the presence of the specified pest, using a sampling scheme able to identify with at least 80 % confidence a 
level of presence of infected plants of 1 %; 
(f) on entry into the Union, the host plants have been checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 33 
and the presence of the specified pest has not been found. 
Article 30 
Introduction into the Union of host plants originating in a pest free production site of an infected country 
1.
Host plants originating in a third country where the specified pest is known to be present may only be introduced 
into the Union where the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the host plants originate in a production site that has been authorised as pest free by the national plant protection 
organisation in accordance with Article 31; 
(b) the national plant protection organisation of the third country concerned has communicated in writing to the 
Commission the list of pest free production sites, including their location within the country; 
(c) the host plants are accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate stating the following: 
(i) under the rubric ‘additional declaration’, that the host plants have been produced for their entire production cycle 
in one or more sites authorised as pest free by the national plant protection organisation in accordance with 
Article 31 and that the host plants have been transported in closed containers or packaging, ensuring that 
infection with the specified pest through its vectors cannot occur; 
(ii) under the rubric ‘place of origin’, the name or code of the pest free production site(s); 
(d) on entry into the Union, the host plants have been checked by the competent authority in accordance with Article 33 
and the presence of the specified pest has not been found. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/17   
2.
Host plants which originate in a third country where the specified pest is known to be present and have been grown 
for the entire production cycle in vitro, may only be introduced into the Union where the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the host plants meet one of the following conditions: 
(i) 
they have been grown from seeds; 
(ii) they have been propagated, under sterile conditions, from mother plants which have spent their entire lives in an 
area free from the specified pest and which have been tested and found free from the specified pest; 
(iii) they have been propagated, under sterile conditions, from mother plants which have been grown in a site fulfilling 
the conditions of Article 31 and which have been tested and found free from the specified pest; 
(b) the host plants have been grown in a production site that has been authorised as pest free by the national plant 
protection organisation in accordance with Article 31; 
(c) the national plant protection organisation of the third country concerned has communicated in writing to the 
Commission the list of pest free production sites, including their location within the country.; 
(d) the host plants are accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate stating the following: 
(i) under the rubric ‘additional declaration’, that the host plants have been produced in vitro for their entire production 
cycle in one or more sites authorised as pest free by the national plant protection organisation in accordance with 
Article 31 and that the host plants have been transported in closed containers or packaging, ensuring that 
infection with the specified pest or any of its known vectors cannot occur; 
(ii) under the rubric ‘place of origin’, the name or code of the pest free production site. 
Article 31 
Authorisation of production sites as pest free 
A production site may only be authorised as pest free where all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the production site has been declared by the national plant protection organisation as an insect-proof site free from the 
specified pest and its vectors, in accordance with the relevant International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures; 
(b) the production site has undergone phytosanitary treatments against the vector population, in all its stages, at 
appropriate times of the year to maintain freedom from vectors of the specified pest. Those treatments shall include 
efficient chemical, biological or mechanical methods based on local conditions; 
(c) the production site is subjected annually to at least two inspections by the competent authority, at the most appropriate 
time; 
(d) as close as possible to the time of movement, the host plants originating in the production site have been subjected to 
molecular testing for the presence of the specified pest using a test listed in Annex IV and using a sampling scheme 
able to identify with at least 90 % confidence a level of presence of infected plants of 1 %. 
Where during the annual inspections, the competent authorities detect the presence of the specified pest, or damages 
compromising the insect-proof conditions of the pest free production site, they shall immediately revoke the authorisation 
of the site and temporarily suspend the movement of the host plants. They shall immediately inform the Commission 
thereof. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/18                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
CHAPTER IX 
OFFICIAL CHECKS ON MOVEMENT OF SPECIFIED PLANTS WITHIN, AND OF HOST PLANTS INTO, THE UNION 
Article 32 
Official checks on movements of specified plants within the Union 
1.
Member States shall carry out systematic official checks on specified plants being moved out of a demarcated area, or 
from an infected zone to a buffer zone. 
2.
Such checks shall be performed at least in the locations, including roads, airports and ports, where the host plants are 
moved from infected zones into buffer zones or other parts of the Union territory. 
3.
Those checks shall include a documentary check, and an identity check of the specified plants. 
4.
Those checks shall be carried out irrespective of the declared origin of the specified plants, ownership or the person 
or entity responsible for them. 
5.
Where those checks show that the conditions laid down in Articles 19 to 23 are not satisfied, the Member State which 
carried them out shall immediately destroy the non-compliant plant in situ or in a nearby location. That action shall be 
carried out taking all necessary precautions to avoid spreading of the specified pest, and any vectors carried by that plant, 
during and after removal. 
Article 33 
Official checks at introduction into the Union 
1.
All consignments of host plants introduced into the Union from a third country shall be officially checked at the 
point of entry into the Union or at the place of destination established in accordance with Commission Directive 
2004/103/EC (14). 
2.
Ιn case of host plants originating in areas where the specified pest is known to occur, the competent authority shall 
carry out an inspection, consisting of sampling and testing of the lot of the specified plants to confirm the absence of the 
specified pest, using a sampling scheme able to identify with at least 80 % confidence, a level of infected plants of 1 %, 
taking account of ISPM No 31. 
3.
Paragraph 2 shall not apply to host plants which have been grown for the entire production cycle in vitro and are 
transported in transparent containers under sterile conditions. 
CHAPTER X 
COMMUNICATION ACTIVITIES 
Article 34 
Awareness campaigns 
1.
Member States shall make information available to the general public, travellers, professional and international 
transport operators concerning the threat of the specified pest for the Union territory. They shall make that information 
publicly available, in the form of targeted awareness campaigns on the respective websites of the competent authority or 
other websites designated by it. 
(14) Commission Directive 2004/103/EC of 7 October 2004 on identity and plant health checks of plants, plant products or other objects, 
listed in Part B of Annex V to Council Directive 2000/29/EC, which may be carried out at a place other than the point of entry into the 
Community or at a place close by and specifying the conditions related to these checks (OJ L 313, 12.10.2004, p. 16). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/19   
2.
Within the demarcated areas, the Member State concerned shall raise public awareness concerning the threat of the 
specified pest and the measures adopted to prevent its introduction into and spread within the Union. It shall ensure that 
the general public, travellers and relevant operators are aware of the delimitation of the demarcated area, the infected zone 
and the buffer zone. The Member State concerned shall also inform relevant operators about the measures to take against 
the vector as laid down in Articles 8 and 14. 
CHAPTER XI 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
Article 35 
Reporting on measures by Member States 
1.
Member States shall, by 30 April of each year, transmit to the Commission and to the other Member States a report 
on the measures taken during the preceding year, pursuant to Articles 2, 4, 5, 7 to 18 and 32, as applicable, and on the 
results of those measures. 
The results of the surveys carried out pursuant to Articles 10 and 15 in demarcated areas shall be transmitted to the 
Commission using the templates referred to in Annex V. 
2.
Member States shall, by 31 December of each year, transmit to the Commission and the other Member States a plan 
setting out the measures to be taken pursuant to Articles 2, 4, 5, 7 to 18 and 32, as applicable, in the following year. That 
plan shall set out the scheduled time period of each measure, the deadlines for implementing the measures and the 
allocated budget for all measures. 
3.
Where justified by the development of the respective phytosanitary risk, Member States shall adapt the respective 
measures and accordingly update the plan referred to paragraph 2. They shall immediately communicate that update to the 
Commission and the other Member States. 
4.
The Member State concerned shall immediately notify the Commission and the other Member States of any official 
identification of the presence of the specified pest in the locations referred to in Article 15(2)(a). 
Article 36 
Compliance 
Member States shall, as necessary in order to comply with this Regulation, repeal or amend the measures, which they have 
adopted to protect themselves against the introduction and spread of the specified pest. They shall immediately inform the 
Commission of the repeal or amendment of those measures. 
Article 37 
Repeal 
Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/789 is repealed. 
Article 38 
Entry into force and application 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/20                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
However, the second sentence of Article 2(4), the third sentence of Article 5(1)(c), the second sentence of Article 28(a) and 
the second sentence of Article 29(a) shall apply from 1 January 2023. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 14 August 2020.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/21   
ANNEX 
‘ANNEX I 
List of plants known to be susceptible to one or more subspecies of the specified pest (‘host plants’) 
Acacia 
Acer 
Albizia julibrissin Durazz. 
Alnus rhombifolia Nutt. 
Amaranthus retroflexus L. 
Ambrosia 
Ampelopsis arborea (L.) Koehne 
Ampelopsis brevipedunculata (Maxim.) Trautv. 
Ampelopsis cordata Michx. 
Anthyllis hermanniae L. 
Artemisia 
Asparagus acutifolius L. 
Baccharis 
Brassica 
Calicotome spinosa (L.) Link 
Calicotome villosa (Poiret) Link 
Callicarpa americana L. 
Callistemon citrinus (Curtis) Skeels 
Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull 
Carya 
Catharanthus 
Celtis occidentalis L. 
Cercis canadensis L. 
Cercis occidentalis Torr. 
Cercis siliquastrum L. 
Chamaecrista fasciculata (Michx.) Greene 
Chamaesyce canescens (L.) Prokh. 
Chenopodium album L. 
Chionanthus 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/22                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
Chitalpa tashkentensis T. S. Elias & Wisura 
Cistus 
Citrus 
Clematis cirrhosa L. 
Coelorachis cylindrica (Michx.) Nash Coffea 
Conium maculatum L. 
Convolvulus cneorum L. 
Coprosma repens A.Rich. 
Coronilla glauca (L.) Batt. 
Coronilla valentina L. 
Cyperus eragrostis Lam. 
Cytisus 
Digitaria 
Dimorphoteca 
Diospyros kaki L.f. 
Diplocyclos palmatus (L.) C.Jeffrey 
Dodonaea viscosa (L.) Jacq. 
Elaeagnus angustifolia L. 
Encelia farinosa A. Gray ex Torr. 
Eremophila maculata (Ker Gawler) F. von Müller. 
Erigeron 
Erodium moschatum (L.) L’Hérit. 
Erysimum 
Euphorbia chamaesyce L. 
Euphorbia terracina L. 
Euryops chrysanthemoides (DC.) B.Nord 
Euryops pectinatus (L.) Cass. 
Fagus crenata Blume 
Fallopia japonica (Houtt.) Ronse Decr. 
Fatsia japonica (Thunb.) Decne. & Planch. 
Ficus carica L. 
Frangula alnus Mill. 
Fraxinus 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/23   
Genista 
Ginkgo biloba L. 
Gleditsia triacanthos L. 
Grevillea juniperina Br. 
Hebe 
Helianthus 
Helichrysum 
Heliotropium europaeum L. 
Hemerocallis 
Hevea brasiliensis (Willd. ex A.Juss.) Müll.Arg. 
Hibiscus 
Humulus scandens (Lour.) Merr. 
Ilex aquifolium L. 
Ilex vomitoria Sol. ex Aiton 
Iva annua L. 
Jacaranda mimosifolia D. Don 
Juglans 
Juniperus ashei J. Buchholz 
Koelreuteria bipinnata Franch. 
Lagerstroemia 
Laurus nobilis L. 
Lavandula 
Ligustrum lucidum L. 
Liquidambar styraciflua L. 
Lonicera japonica Thunb. 
Lupinus 
Magnolia grandiflora L. 
Mallotus paniculatus (Lam.) Müll.Arg. 
Malva parviflora L. 
Medicago arborea L. 
Medicago sativa L. 
Metrosideros 
Mimosa 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/24                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
Modiola caroliniana (L.) G. Don 
Morus 
Myoporum insulare R. Br. 
Myrtus communis L. 
Nandina domestica Murray 
Neptunia lutea (Leavenw.) Benth. 
Nerium oleander L. 
Olea 
Osteospermum ecklonis DC. 
Osteospermum fruticosum (L.) Norl. 
Parthenocissus quinquefolia (L.) Planch. 
Paspalum dilatatum Poir. 
Pelargonium 
Persea americana Mill. 
Phagnalon saxatile (L.) Cass. 
Phillyrea angustifolia L. 
Phillyrea latifolia L. 
Phlomis fruticosa L. 
Phoenix reclinata Jacq. 
Phoenix roebelenii O’ Brien 
Pinus taeda L. 
Pistacia vera L. 
Plantago lanceolata L. 
Platanus 
Pluchea odorata (L.) Cass. 
Polygala myrtifolia L. 
Polygala x grandiflora Nana 
Prunus 
Pterospartum tridentatum (L.) Willk. 
Pyrus 
Quercus 
Ratibida columnifera (Nutt.) Wooton & Standl. 
Rhamnus alaternus L. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/25   
Rhus 
Robinia pseudoacacia L. 
Rosa 
Rosmarinus officinalis L. 
Rubus 
Salvia mellifera Greene 
Sambucus 
Santolina chamaecyparissus L. 
Sapindus saponaria L. 
Sassafras 
Setaria magna Griseb. 
Solidago fistulosa Mill. 
Solidago virgaurea L. 
Sorghum halepense (L.) Pers. 
Spartium 
Stewartia pseudocamellia 
Strelitzia reginae Aiton 
Streptocarpus 
Symphyotrichum divaricatum (Nutt.) G.L.Nesom 
Teucrium capitatum L. 
Trifolium repens L. 
UlexUlmus 
Vaccinium 
Vinca 
Vitis 
Westringia fruticosa (Willd.) Druce 
Westringia glabra R.Br. 
Xanthium strumarium L.   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/26                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
ANNEX II 
List of plants known to be susceptible to specific subspecies of the specified pest (‘specified plants’) 
Specified plants susceptible to Xylella fastidiosa subspecies fastidiosa 
Acer 
Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. 
Calicotome spinosa (L.) Link 
Cercis occidentalis Torr. 
Cistus monspeliensis L. 
Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck 
Coffea arabica L. 
Erysimum 
Genista lucida L. 
Juglans regia L. 
Lupinus 
Magnolia grandiflora L. 
Malva parviflora L. 
Medicago sativa L. 
Metrosideros 
Morus 
Nerium oleander L. 
Pluchea odorata (L.) Cass. 
Polygala myrtifolia L. 
Prunus 
Rhamnus alaternus L. 
Rosmarinus officinalis L. 
Rubus rigidus Sm. 
Rubus ursinus Cham. & Schldl. 
Sambucus 
Spartium junceum L. 
Streptocarpus 
Teucrium capitatum L. 
Ulmus americana L. 
Vinca major L. 
Vitis 
Specified plants susceptible to Xylella fastidiosa subspecies multiplex 
Acacia 
Acer griseum (Franch.) Pax 
Acer pseudoplatanus L. 
Acer rubrum L. 
Alnus rhombifolia Nutt. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/27   
Ambrosia psilostachya DC. 
Ambrosia trifida L. 
Ampelopsis cordata Michx. 
Anthyllis hermanniae L. 
Artemisia 
Asparagus acutifolius L. 
Baccharis halimifolia L. 
Calicotome spinosa (L.) Link 
Calicotome villosa (Poir.) Link 
Callistemon citrinus (Curtis) Skeels 
Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull 
Carya 
Celtis occidentalis L. 
Cercis canadensis L. 
Cercis occidentalis Torr. 
Cercis siliquastrum L. 
Chionanthus 
Cistus 
Clematis cirrhosa L. 
Convolvulus cneorum L. 
Coprosma repens A. Rich. 
Coronilla glauca (L.) Batt. 
Coronilla valentina L. 
Cytisus 
Dimorphoteca 
Dodonaea viscosa (L.) Jacq. 
Elaeagnus angustifolia L. 
Encelia farinosa Gray ex Torr. 
Erigeron karvinskianus DC. 
Euryops chrysanthemoides (DC.) B.Nord. 
Euryops pectinatus (L.) Cass. 
Fallopia japonica (Houtt.) Ronse Decr. 
Ficus carica L. 
Frangula alnus Mill. 
Fraxinus 
Genista 
Ginkgo biloba L. 
Gleditsia triacanthos L. 
Grevillea juniperina Br. 
Hebe 
Helianthus 
Helichrysum 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/28                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
Ilex aquifolium L. 
Iva annua L. 
Koelreuteria bipinnata Franch. 
Lagerstroemia 
Laurus nobilis L. 
Lavandula 
Liquidambar styraciflua L. 
Lupinus villosus Willd. 
Magnolia grandiflora L. 
Medicago arborea L. 
Medicago sativa L. 
Metrosideros excelsa Rich. 
Morus 
Myrtus communis L. 
Olea 
Osteospermum ecklonis (DC.) Norl. 
Pelargonium 
Phagnalon saxatile (L.) Cass. 
Phillyrea angustifolia L. 
Phlomis fruticosa L. 
Pistacia vera L. 
Plantago lanceolata L. 
Platanus 
Polygala myrtifolia L. 
Polygala x grandiflora Nana 
Prunus 
Pterospartum tridentatum (L.) Willk. 
Quercus 
Ratibida columnifera (Nutt.) Wooton & Standl. 
Rhamnus alaternus L. 
Robinia pseudoacacia L. 
Rosa 
Rosmarinus officinalis L. 
Rubus 
Salvia mellifera Greene 
Sambucus 
Santolina chamaecyparissus L. 
Sapindus saponaria L. 
Solidago virgaurea L. 
Spartium 
Strelitzia reginae Aiton 
Ulex 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/29   
Ulmus americana L. 
Ulmus crassifolia Nutt. 
Vaccinium 
Vinca 
Westringia fruticosa Guerin. 
Xanthium strumarium L. 
Specified plants susceptible to Xylella fastidiosa subspecies pauca 
Acacia 
Amaranthus retroflexus L. 
Asparagus acutifolius L. 
Catharanthus roseus (L.) G. Don 
Chamaesyce canescens (L.) Prokh. 
Chenopodium album L. 
Cistus albidus L. 
Cistus creticus L. 
Citrus 
Coffea 
Dimorphoteca fruticosa (L.) DC. 
Dodonaea viscosa (L.) Jacq. 
Eremophila maculata (Ker Gawler) F. von Müller. 
Erigeron 
Euphorbia chamaesyce L. 
Euphorbia terracina L. 
Grevillea juniperina Br. 
Hebe 
Heliotropium europaeum L. 
Hibiscus 
Laurus nobilis L. 
Lavandula angustifolia Mill. 
Lavandula dentata L. 
Lavandula stoechas L. 
Myoporum insulare Br. 
Myrtus communis L. 
Nerium oleander L. 
Olea europaea L. 
Osteospermum fruticosum (L.) Norl. 
Pelargonium x fragrans Willd. (syn. Pelargonium fragrans E. Mey.) 
Phillyrea latifolia L. 
Polygala myrtifolia L. 
Prunus 
Rhamnus alaternus L. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/30                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
Rosmarinus officinalis L. 
Spartium junceum L. 
Vinca minor L. 
Westringia fruticosa (Willd.) Druce 
Westringia glabra Br.   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/31   
ANNEX III 
Infected zones referred to in Article 4(2) where containment measures set out in Articles 13 to 17 
are applied 
PART A 
Infected zone in Italy 
The infected zone of Italy includes the following areas: 
1. The province of Lecce 
2. The province of Brindisi 
3. Municipalities located in the province of Taranto: 
Avetrana 
Carosino 
Crispiano 
Faggiano 
Fragagnano 
Grottaglie 
Leporano 
Lizzano 
Manduria 
Martina Franca 
Maruggio 
Monteiasi 
Montemesola 
Monteparano 
Pulsano 
Roccaforzata 
San Giorgio Ionico 
San Marzano di San Giuseppe 
Sava 
Statte 
Taranto 
Torricella 
4. Municipality located in the province of Bari: 
Locorotondo 
PART B 
Infected zone in France 
The infected zone in France includes the following area: 
The region of Corsica 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/32                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
PART C 
Infected zone in Spain 
The infected zone in Spain includes the following area: 
The Autonomous Community of Balearic Islands   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/33   
ANNEX IV 
Tests for the identification of Xylella fastidiosa and its subspecies 
A. Tests for the screening and identification of the presence of Xylella fastidiosa 
1. Real time PCR based on Harper et al., 2010 (and erratum 2013); 
2. Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) based on primers developed by Harper et al. 2010 (and erratum 
2013); 
3. Real time PCR based on Ouyang et al., 2013 
4. Conventional PCR based on Minsavage et al. 1994 
B. Molecular tests for the identification of the subspecies of Xylella fastidiosa 
1. Multi Locus Sequence Typing (MLST) based on Yuan et al., 2010 determining all subspecies; 
2. PCR based on Hernandez-Martinez et al., 2006 determining the subspecies fastidiosa, multiplex and sandyi; 
3. PCR based on Pooler & Hartung 1995 determining the subspecies pauca.   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/34                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
ANNEX V 
Templates for the reporting of the results of the surveys carried out pursuant to Articles 10 and 15 in demarcated areas 
PART A 
Template for the report of results of statistically based annual surveys                                                                  
1. Geographical location of the DA  
2. Initial size of DA (ha)  
3. Updated size of DA (ha)  
4. Approach (E/C)  
5. Zone (e.g. BZ/IZ)  
6. Survey sites  
7. Timing  
A. Survey definition (input parameters for RiBESS+) 
B. Sampling effort 
C. Survey results 
23. Comments  
8. Target 
population 
9. Epidemiological units  
10. Detection 
method 
11. Sampling effectiveness  
12. Method sensitivity  
13. Risk factors (activities, 
locations and areas) 
14. N° epidemiological units inspected  
15. N° examinations  
16. N° samples  
17. N° tests  
18. N° other measures  
19. Results 
20. 
Notifica-
tion 
number of 
the 
outbreaks 
notified, 
as 
applic-
able, in 
accor-
dance 
with 
Imple-
menting 
Regula-
tion (EU) 
2019/17-
15 
21. Achieved Confidence level  
22. Design prevalence  
Host species  
Area (ha or other more relevant unit))  
Inspection units  
Description  
Units  
Visual examinations  
Testing  
Other methods  
Risk factor  
Risk levels  
N° of locations  
Relative risks  
Proportion of the host population    
Positive  
Negative  
Undetermined  
Number  
Date                                                                                                             
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/35   
Instructions on how to fill in the template 
Explain the assumptions for the survey design. Summarise and justify: 
— The target population, epidemiological unit and inspection units; 
— The detection method and method sensitivity; 
— The risk factor(s), indicating the risk levels and corresponding relative risks and proportions of host plant population. 
For column 1: 
Indicate the name of the geographical area, outbreak number or any information that allows the identification of the Demarcated Area (DA) concerned and the date 
when it was established. 
For columns 2 and 3: Indicate the size of the DA before the start of the survey and any relevant update. 
For column 4: 
Indicate the approach: Eradication (E), Containment (C). Please, include as many rows as necessary, depending on the number of DA and the approaches these areas 
are subject to. 
For column 5: 
Indicate the zone of the DA where the survey was carried out, including as many rows as necessary: Infected/infested zone (IZ) or buffer zone (BZ), using separate 
rows. When applicable, indicate the area of the IZ where the survey was carried out (e.g. last 5 km adjacent to the BZ, around nurseries, etc.) in different rows. 
For column 6: 
Indicate the survey sites, using more than one row if needed. Please, always report the surveys carried out in nurseries in a different row. When using the option 
‘other’, please specify what it is: 
1. Open air (production area): 1.1 field (arable, pasture); 1.2. orchard/vineyard; 1.3. nursery; 1.4. forest; 
2. Open air (others): 2.1. private gardens; 2.2. public sites; 2.3. conservation area; 2.4. wild plants in areas other than conservation areas; 2.5. other, with 
specification of the particular case (e.g. garden centre, etc.); 
3. Physically closed conditions: 3.1. greenhouse; 3.2. private site, other than greenhouse; 3.3. public site, other than greenhouse; 3.4. other, with specification of the 
particular case (e.g. garden centre). 
For column 7: 
Indicate the months of the year when the surveys were carried out. 
For column 8: 
Indicate the chosen target population providing accordingly the list of host species and area covered. The target population is defined as the ensemble of inspection 
units. Its size is typically defined for agricultural areas as hectares, but it could be lots, fields, greenhouses, etc. Please justify the choice made in the underlying 
assumptions in column 23 (‘Comments’). Indicate the inspection units surveyed. ‘Inspection unit’ means plants, plant parts, commodities, materials, pest vectors that 
had been scrutinised for identifying and detecting the pests. 
For column 9: 
Indicate the epidemiological units surveyed, indicating its description and unit of measurement. ‘Epidemiological unit’ means a homogeneous area where the 
interactions between the pest, the host plants and the abiotic and biotic factors and conditions would result into the same epidemiology, should the pest be present. 
The epidemiological units are a subdivision of the target population which are homogenous in terms of epidemiology and which include at least one host plant. In 
some cases the whole host population in a region/area/country may be defined as epidemiological unit. They could be NUTS regions, urban areas, forests, rose 
gardens or farms, or hectares. The choice shall be justified in the underlying assumptions. 
For column 10 
Indicate the methods used during the survey including the number of activities in each case. Indicate with N/A when the information of certain column is not 
available. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/36                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
For column 11: 
Indicate an estimation of the sampling effectiveness. Sampling effectiveness means the probability of selecting infected plant parts from an infected plant. For vectors, 
it is the effectiveness of the method to capture a positive vector when it is present in the survey area. For soil, it is the effectiveness of selecting a soil sample 
containing the pest when the pest is present in the survey area. 
For column 12: 
‘Method sensitivity’ means the probability of a method to correctly detect pest presence. The method sensitivity is defined as the probability that a truly positive host 
tests positive. It is the multiplication of the sampling effectiveness (i.e. probability of selecting infected plant parts from an infected plant) by the diagnostic sensitivity 
(characterised by the visual inspection and/or laboratory test used in the identification process). 
For column 13: 
Provide the risk factors in different rows, using as many rows as necessary. For each risk factor indicate the risk level and corresponding relative risk and proportion 
of host population. 
For column B: 
Indicate the details of the survey. Indicate with N/A when the information of certain column is not applicable. The information to be provided in these columns is 
related to the information included in the column 10 ‘Detection methods’. 
For column 19: 
Indicate the number of samples found positive, negative or undetermined. ‘Undetermined’ are those analysed samples for which no result was obtained due to 
different factors (e.g. below detection level, unprocessed sample-not identified, old, etc.). 
For column 20: 
Indicate the outbreak notifications of the year when the survey took place. The outbreak notification number does not need to be included when the competent 
authority has decided that the finding is one of the cases referred to in Articles 14(2), 15(2) or 16 of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031. In this case, please indicate the 
reason for not providing this information in column 21 (‘Comments’). 
For column 21: 
Indicate the sensitivity of the survey, as defined in ISPM 31. This value of the achieved confidence level of pest freedom is calculated based on the inspections (and/or 
samples) performed given the method sensitivity and the design prevalence. 
For column 22: 
Indicate the design prevalence based on a pre-survey estimate of the likely actual prevalence of the pest in the field. The design prevalence is set as a goal of the 
survey and corresponds to the compromise the risk managers are making between the risk of having the pest and the resources available for the survey. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/37   
PART B 
Template for the report of results of surveys carried out for insect vectors of Xylella fastidiosa                                                                  
1. Description of  
the DA  
2. Approach  
3. Zone  
4 Vector species  
5. Visual  
examinations  
6. Type of traps (or other vector  
capture method (e.g.,sweep net, etc.)  
7. No of traps (or other capture  
method)  
8. Frequency of traps checking  
(or other method, if applicable)   
9. Timing of traps checking  
(or other method, if applicable)  
10. No of vector samples collected  
11. No of vectors trapped  
12. No of vectors analysed  
13. No of vector samples analysed  
14. No of positive vector samples  
15. No of negative vector samples  
16. No of undetermined vector samples  
17. Comments  
Name   
Date of  
establishment  
Timing  
Number                                          
Instructions on how to fill in the template 
For column1: 
Indicate the name of the area, outbreak number or any information that allows identifying the Demarcated Area (DA) and the date it was established. 
For column 2: 
Indicate: Eradication (E), Containment (C). Please include as many rows as necessary, depending on the number of DA and the approaches these areas are subject to. 
For column 3: 
Indicate the zone of the DA where the survey was carried out: Infected/infested zone (IZ) or buffer zone (BZ), using separate rows. When applicable, indicate the area of the 
IZ where the survey was carried out (e.g. last 5 km, around nurseries, etc.). 
For column 4: 
Indicate the list of vector species of the pest indicated in the first column, using different rows per vector. 
For column 5: 
Indicate only if applicable. 
For column 6: 
Indicate the type of vector capture method. When more than one method is used for the same vector, provide the data in separate rows. 
For column 7: 
Indicate the number of traps or other capture method, using a separate row per method. 
For column 8: 
Indicate when the traps or capture method were checked (e.g. once per week, once per month, four times per year, etc.). 
For column 9: 
Indicate the months of the year when the traps are checked. 
For column 10: Indicate the number of samples collected (a sample may contain several vectors). 
For column 11: Indicate the total number of vector trapped. Please include only the number of the vector of interest, no bycatch. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 269/38                                                                                                                                         
17.8.2020   
For column 13: Indicate the number of vector samples analysed for the pest, applicable when a sample is composed by more than one vector. 
For column 16: The number of undetermined samples, namely samples analysed but where due to different factors no result was obtained (e.g. below detection level, etc.).’   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
17.8.2020                                                                                                                                         
L 269/39   
