COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/353 
of 3 March 2020 
imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and definitively collecting the provisional duty imposed on 
imports of steel road wheels originating in the People’s Republic of China 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection 
against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1) (‘the basic Regulation’), and in particular 
Article 9(4) thereof, 
Whereas: 
1. PROCEDURE 
1.1. Initiation 
(1) 
On 15 February 2019, the European Commission (‘the Commission’) initiated an anti-dumping investigation with 
regard to imports into the Union of steel road wheels (‘SRW’) originating in the People’s Republic of China (‘the 
PRC’ or ‘the country concerned’) on the basis of Article 5 of the basic Regulation. It published a Notice of Initiation 
in the Official Journal of the European Union (2) (‘Notice of Initiation’). The product scope of the investigation was 
clarified in the notice amending the Notice of Initiation (3). 
(2) 
The Commission initiated the investigation following a complaint lodged on 3 January 2019 by the Association of 
European Wheels Manufacturers (‘EUWA’ or ‘the complainant’) on behalf of producers representing more than 25 % 
of the total Union production of steel road wheels. The complaint contained evidence of dumping and of resulting 
material injury that was sufficient to justify the initiation of the investigation. 
1.2. Registration 
(3) 
The Commission did not make imports of the product concerned subject to registration under Article 14(5a) of the 
basic Regulation, as explained in recital (4) of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1693 (4) (‘the 
provisional Regulation’). No parties made any comments on this point. 
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21. 
(2) Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of steel road wheels originating in the People’s Republic of 
China (OJ C 60, 15.2.2019, p. 19). 
(3) Notice amending the notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of steel road wheels originating in the 
People’s Republic of China (OJ C 111, 25.3.2019, p. 52). 
(4) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1693 of 9 October 2019 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of 
steel road wheels originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 259, 10.10.2019, p. 15). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                             
L 65/9   

1.3. Provisional measures 
(4) 
In accordance with Article 19a of the basic Regulation, on 19 September 2019, the Commission provided parties 
with a summary of the proposed duties and details about the calculation of the dumping margin and the margin 
adequate to remove the injury to the Union industry. Interested parties were invited to comment on the accuracy of 
the calculations within three working days. No comments were submitted. 
(5) 
On 11 October 2019, the Commission imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports into the Union of steel 
road wheels originating in the People’s Republic of China by the provisional Regulation. 
(6) 
As stated in recital (23) of the provisional Regulation, the investigation of dumping and injury covered the period 
from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 (‘the investigation period’ or ‘IP’) and the examination of trends 
relevant for the assessment of injury covered the period from 1 January 2015 to the end of the investigation period 
(‘the period considered’). 
1.4. Subsequent procedure 
(7) 
Following the disclosure of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which provisional anti-dumping 
measures were imposed (‘provisional disclosure’), the complainant, eight importers and/or resellers, and two 
Chinese exporting producers made written submissions making their views known on the provisional findings. 
(8) 
The parties who so requested were granted an opportunity to be heard. A hearing took place with one Chinese 
exporting producer. No hearing with the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings was requested at that stage. 
(9) 
The Commission continued seeking and verifying all the information it deemed necessary for its final findings. 
When reaching its definitive findings, the Commission considered the comments submitted by interested parties 
and revised its provisional conclusions when appropriate. 
(10) 
The Commission informed all interested parties of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it 
intended to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports into the Union of steel road wheels originating in the 
PRC (‘final disclosure’). All parties were granted a period within which they could make comments on the final 
disclosure. 
(11) 
One unrelated importer had a hearing with the Commission services on 9 January 2020. On 16 January 2020, one 
group of Chinese exporting producers had a hearing in the presence of the Hearing Officer concerning the stage 
following final disclosure. 
(12) 
The comments submitted by the interested parties were considered and taken into account where appropriate in this 
Regulation. 
1.5. Sampling 
(13) 
In the absence of comments concerning sampling, recitals (7) to (18) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
1.6. Investigation period and period considered 
(14) 
In the absence of comments concerning the investigation period and the period considered, recital (23) of the 
provisional Regulation was confirmed. 
2. PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT 
2.1. Claims regarding the product scope 
(15) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, several parties pointed at ambiguities in the description of 
TARIC code 8716 90 90 97, i.e. one of the codes subject to provisional measures. These parties asked the 
Commission to confirm that this code only refers to wheels for road use, and therefore it did not cover wheels for 
wheelbarrows and hand trucks. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 65/10                                                                                                                                             
4.3.2020   

(16) 
The Commission confirmed that this interpretation was correct and that wheels for wheelbarrows and hand trucks 
do not fall within the scope of this investigation. To ensure clarity, the Commission adjusted the description of the 
TARIC code in question accordingly. On 29 October 2019, the Commission also published a note to the file 
informing all interested parties about this adjustment. 
(17) 
Right before the publication of the provisional Regulation an unrelated importer requested the exclusion of spare 
road steel wheels for passenger cars on the grounds that they do not have the same basic technical and physical 
characteristics as all other products falling within the product scope. This importer argued that spare road steel 
wheels cannot be used as normal wheels because their speed is limited to 80 km/hour. The party further claimed 
that the overall production of spare road steel wheels for passenger cars is very small in the Union and even non- 
existent in the case of the replacement market (as opposed to the Original Equipment Manufacturer or ‘OEM’ 
segment where wheels are incorporated to the car during the manufacturing process). 
(18) 
The Commission dismissed the unrelated importer’s request. The speed limit does not alter the basic technical and 
physical characteristics of a wheel and the importer did not bring any other evidence showing that such spare road 
wheels would have technical and physical characteristics different from all other products falling within the product 
scope of the investigation. Furthermore, the party itself confirmed that there is production of these types of wheels 
in the Union and therefore competition with imported spare road steel wheels. The fact that these wheels are 
allegedly not produced and sold by the Union industry in one of the two main distribution channels is irrelevant 
since the steel road wheels in the replacement market and those sold on the OEM segment have the same basic 
technical and physical characteristics. 
(19) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, a party criticised the fact that the complaint uses the 
application of a wheel, i.e. wheels used on the road, to determine whether a steel wheel falls within the scope of the 
investigation or not. Instead, the party proposed speed and load as the distinguishing factor to determine whether a 
steel wheel is designed to be used on the road and therefore falls within the scope of the investigation. In particular, 
the party considered that only wheels designed to travel above 50 km/h are designed and built as road wheels. The 
party reiterated the claim following final disclosure. 
(20) 
The Commission considered that this claim did not question the product definition or the scope of the investigation 
itself, but rather suggests an alternative way to describe steel road wheels. The Commission does however not 
consider that speed is a relevant factor for defining the product scope, as explained above in recital (18), and 
therefore dismissed the party’s proposal. 
(21) 
One exporting producer complained that the provisional regulation contained neither technical definitions for the 
products excluded nor procedures for confirming with Union customs officials and the Commission services 
whether or not certain products were excluded from the scope of measures. 
(22) 
The Commission confirmed, however, that the technical definitions of the products excluded and customs 
procedures already in place were sufficient for the proper application and monitoring of the current anti-dumping 
measures, and that, at this stage, additional definitions or procedures did not appear to be necessary in this case. 
This claim was therefore rejected. 
(23) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, an unrelated importer submitted that steel wheels for 
agricultural trailers or semi-trailers with a rim diameter of 16 inches and more (up to 54 inches) should be excluded 
from the scope of the investigation because they have different physical and technical characteristics than steel 
wheels for truck trailers or semi-trailers and in term of speed, load capacity and stud holes. It is noted that the 
provisional Regulation mentioned the exclusion from the scope of the measures wheels for agricultural trailers and 
other trailed agricultural equipment used in fields with a rim diameter of not more than 16 inches for clarification 
purposes. However, while this exclusion narrowed the scope of the investigation, it did not change the fact that 
wheels mainly designed and used for off the road purposes were never covered by the product definition, as 
explained in recital (24). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 65/11   

(24) 
It is noted that the provisional Regulation provisionally excluded from the scope of the measures wheels for 
passenger car trailers, caravans, agricultural trailers and other trailed agricultural equipment used in fields, with a 
rim diameter of not more than 16 inches. Some parties considered that, as a consequence, wheels of agricultural 
trailers and other trailed agricultural equipment used in fields, with a rim diameter of more than 16 inches would 
be covered by the scope of the measures. However, the Commission clarified that, by this exclusion, it did not 
intend to include in the scope of the investigation certain other off the road wheels. Indeed, wheels designed for 
uses other than on public roads were specifically excluded from the product definition in the Notice of Initiation. 
This was also the intention of the complainant. Indeed, the open version of the complaint specified that OTR (Off 
The Road) wheels, i.e. wheels for equipment not normally designed for the road, such as agricultural wheels, wheels 
for earthmoving and mining equipment and wheels for industrial handling (such as fork lift truck wheels or cranes) 
are excluded from this complaint. The investigation did not bring to light any reasons to question this exclusion, 
and thus steel wheels for agricultural trailers or semi-trailers were not included in the scope of the investigation, 
irrespective of their rim diameters. 
(25) 
Following final disclosure, EUWA proposed to add ‘wheels for use in construction vehicles’ in the list of products 
excluded. The Commission deemed this addition unnecessary given that those wheels were never covered by the 
product definition. EUWA’s proposal was thus rejected. 
(26) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, an unrelated importer submitted that certain wheels for 
passenger cars for winter tyres should be excluded from the scope of the investigation, namely wheels specially 
designed for fitting multiple car models. The company claimed that Union producers refused to produce this type of 
wheels and that such wheels have resource-saving characteristics and serve a minor share of the ‘aftermarket’ or 
replacement market. The party reiterated the claims following final disclosure. 
(27) 
The investigation found that steel wheels for winter tyres – including those fitting multiple car models – have the 
same basic physical and technical characteristics as other products falling within the product scope of the 
investigation. The wheel from the unrelated importer is a ‘universal’ passenger car wheel that has a centre hole 
adapter ring. This latter feature allows using one base wheel for different centre hole diameters by means of different 
centre hole adapters. The result is the same as a fix centre hole. The product competes with wheels for winter tyres 
produced by the Union producers and which are distributed both on the OEM and the aftermarket channel. Thus 
there was no basis for this product type to be excluded from the scope of the investigation. The Commission 
therefore rejected the unrelated importer’s request. 
2.2. Conclusion 
(28) 
Having taken into account all comments submitted by interested parties after the provisional Regulation, the 
Commission confirmed that the product definition in recital (42) of the provisional Regulation properly reflected 
the scope of the investigation. Thus, the product concerned was defined as wheels of steel designed for use on the 
road, whether or not with their accessories and whether or not fitted with tyres, designed for: 
— Road tractors, 
— Motor vehicles for the transport of persons and/or the transport of goods, 
— Special purpose motor vehicles (for example, fire fighting vehicles, spraying lorries), 
— Trailers or semi-trailers, not mechanically propelled, of the above listed vehicles  
originating in the PRC, currently falling under CN codes ex 8708 70 10, ex 8708 70 99 and ex 8716 90 90 (TARIC 
codes 8708 70 10 80, 8708 70 10 85, 8708 70 99 20, 8708 70 99 80, 8716 90 90 95 and 8716 90 90 97) (‘the 
product concerned’).  
The following products were excluded: 
— Road wheels of steel for the industrial assembly of pedestrian-controlled tractors currently falling under 
subheading 8701 10, 
— Wheels for road quad bikes, 
— Wheel centres in star form, cast in one piece, of steel, 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 65/12                                                                                                                                             
4.3.2020   

— Wheels for motor vehicles, specifically designed for uses other than on public roads (for example, wheels for 
agricultural tractors or forestry tractors, for forklifts, for pushback tractors, for dumpers designed for off- 
highway use), 
— Wheels for passenger car trailers and for caravans, not mechanically propelled, with a rim diameter of not more 
than 16 inches, 
— Wheels for trailers or semi-trailers, specifically designed for uses other than on public roads (for example, wheels 
for agricultural trailers and other trailed agricultural equipment used in fields). 
3. DUMPING 
3.1. Preliminary remarks 
(29) 
As explained in the recitals (43) to (48) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission decided to make use of the 
provisions of Article 18 of the basic Regulation with respect to one of the sampled Chinese exporting producers. 
The Commission was not able to reconcile the exporting producer’s audited accounts and tax reports with its 
reported export sales. Therefore, the Commission found that the information provided was unreliable, triggering 
the need for the application of Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation to complete the Commission’s determination of 
the exporting producer’s dumping and injury margin. 
(30) 
In its submission after the provisional disclosure, the company in question reiterated its arguments against the 
application of Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation, already presented in the reply to the letter sent to the company 
on 19 June 2019 on the possible use of Article 18 of the basic Regulation and during the hearings in the 
provisional stage of the investigation. 
(31) 
Furthermore, the company requested the Commission to resort to Article 18(3) of the basic Regulation rather than 
Article 18(1) in order to make an individual dumping and injury margin calculation. It based its request on the 
allegation that the company cooperated to the best of its ability and thus claimed that the information it submitted 
should not be totally rejected. The company also submitted alternative methodologies to calculate the export price, 
arguing that those alternatives would allow the Commission to determine an individual dumping and injury margin 
for the company. 
(32) 
More specifically, the company proposed: 
(a) several alternative methods which would allow verification of its reported export transactions against outside 
sources, such as using data from the Union’s customs authorities or records of their clients in the Union; 
(b) to use as a basis for the export price in the calculation the prices on the domestic VAT invoices issued to an 
unrelated broker. 
(33) 
Additionally, three of the six unrelated Union importers purchasing the product concerned from the company 
supported in their submissions the proposal to use their import data and to calculate on that basis an individual 
dumping margin for the Chinese exporting producer in question. 
(34) 
In reply to those submissions, the Commission underlined that no new facts were brought to its attention which 
would change the basic finding, on the basis of the evidence collected during the on-spot verification at the 
exporting producer’s premises, that the sales transactions to the Union reported by that producer could not be 
reconciled with its audited accounts and tax reports. 
(35) 
The Commission also considered that the provisions of Article 18(3) of the basic Regulation could not assist the 
exporting producer in the present case since the question before it was not whether the information submitted by 
the party was not ideal in all respect, but rather that there was fundamental uncertainty over the reliability of the 
records and information provided to the Commission. There was no way for the Commission to independently 
verify that data. Accordingly, the Commission was not in possession of the necessary evidence that would allow it 
to complete its calculations as regards the exporting producer’s dumping and injury margins. Furthermore, and in 
any event, none of the proposed alternatives would result in the possibility to reconcile the reported sales and cost  
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 65/13   

figures with the official documents verified at the premises of the company in question (audited accounts and tax 
reports). Moreover, none of the suggested alternatives would ensure that the Commission was provided with the full 
list of export transactions from the exporting producer concerned during the investigation period. Thus, the 
Commission could not guarantee that a reasonably accurate finding of dumping or injury margin could be made, 
absent a complete and verifiable set of export transactions during the investigation period. 
(36) 
The information supplied by the company was consequently considered unreliable and accordingly disregarded 
pursuant to Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation (5). 
(37) 
Following the final disclosure, the company reiterated its claim that its export price, necessary for the determination 
of the dumping and injury margins, could have been established based on the alternative methodologies explained in 
recitals (31) to (33). Furthermore, the company noted that the Court in EBMA v Giant (China) explained that ‘the 
term necessary information refers to information held by the interested parties which the EU institutions ask them to 
provide in order to enable them to reach the appropriate findings in an anti-dumping investigation’ (6). In this 
respect, the company claimed that the Commission never requested certain additional data to confirm that the list 
of export transaction to the Union was complete. 
(38) 
The Commission recalled that the company was already informed in the specific provisional disclosure that the data 
mentioned in recital (37), in particular the complete and verifiable data set of export transactions during the 
investigation period was not available to the Commission. The company was not able to provide evidence that the 
data was complete and, in any event, as explained before, the Commission could not verify it either. Therefore, the 
claim that the Commission never requested additional information is inapposite. Given the specific circumstances, 
the Commission was not in a position to confirm the data set of export transactions provided by this company. 
(39) 
Furthermore, the company reiterated that it had cooperated to its best ability throughout the proceeding and recalled 
that it is the Commission practice to use as much of the company’s own information as possible referring to an 
earlier investigation (7). 
(40) 
The Commission recalled that the unique circumstances of each investigation should be considered individually. In 
the present case, the main problem faced by the Commission was the fundamental unreliability of the company’s 
records, which, being a problem at the root, could not be solved by applying adjustments to the information 
submitted by the company. Since the company records could not be verified, the Commission could not ascertain 
either with the necessary degree of certainty that the data set of export transactions (including products exported, 
volumes and values)were accurate and complete. In this respect, the Commission also observed that the data set of 
export prices provided and confirmed by other means, such as data from importers or export statistics, could not 
be reconciled with the audited accounts of the company, further suggesting that the data could not be relied upon. 
(41) 
In addition, the company claimed that the Commission erred in law when it applied the provisions of Article 18 of 
the basic Regulation to the determination of the normal value as only information concerning the export price 
were found not reliable. In this respect, the company reiterated that the panel report in case DS 337: EC – Salmon 
(Norway) (8) referred to Annex II of the WTO Anti-dumping Agreement, which requires that ‘all information which 
is verifiable, which is appropriately submitted so that it can be used in the investigation without undue difficulties, 
which is supplied in a timely fashion, and, where applicable, which is supplied in a medium or computer language 
requested by the authorities, should be taken into account when determinations are made’. 
(5) Case T-413/13, City Cycle Industries, ECLI:EU:T:2015:164, paras. 120-121. 
(6) Case C-61/16 P, EBMA v Giant (China), para. 57, EU:C:2017:968. 
(7) Council Regulation (EC) No 950/2001 (OJ L 134, 17.5.2001) recitals 43-44. 
(8) Panel report, EC – Salmon (Norway), recitals 7.354-355. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 65/14                                                                                                                                             
4.3.2020   

(42) 
The Commission considered that notwithstanding the provisions of Annex II of the WTO Anti-dumping Agreement, 
the determination of the normal value was without effect in the present case. The company submitted information 
for the determination of its individual dumping margin. The Commission found that the information for the 
determination of the export price, which is a fundamental element in the determination of the dumping margin, 
was not reliable since it could not be verified. The deficiencies were of such nature that none of the information 
provided for the determination of the export price could be used. In such case, any determination of the normal 
value would be redundant as no dumping margin could be established in the absence of the export price. 
(43) 
Finally, the company claimed that the Commission violated the company’s rights of defence by not disclosing the 
determination of the normal value. In this respect, the company also requested a hearing with the hearing officer, 
which was organised on 16 January 2020. 
(44) 
As explained in recital (42), the normal value for the company was not determined in the present case. Therefore, the 
Commission considered that it had not failed to disclose any information in its possession. Moreover, in response to 
an earlier request of the company to have the determination of the normal value disclosed, the Commission 
informed the company about all the elements it would have used if a normal value had been determined. 
(45) 
In the hearing of 16 January 2020, the hearing officer considered that the Commission did not infringe the rights of 
defence of the company when it did not disclose the calculation of the normal value. 
(46) 
Therefore, the Commission confirmed the conclusions set out in recitals (43) to (48) of the provisional Regulation 
and maintained the decision to apply the provisions of Article 18(1), first paragraph, to the company in question. 
As the export sales of the company could not be verified, the Commission could not establish the exact product 
types exported to the Union during the investigation period. Therefore, and absent this information, the 
Commission considered it appropriate that the margin given to the company be equal to the residual margin. The 
Commission further notes that the company may request reimbursement of duties collected in accordance with 
Article 11(8) of the basic Regulation, if it can show in the future that its export data are verifiable. 
3.2. Normal value 
(47) 
In the absence of any comments with respect to the application of the Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, the 
choice of the representative country, factors of production and benchmarks applied for the calculation of 
undistorted costs, and calculation of the normal value, the Commission confirmed recitals (49) to (178) of the 
provisional Regulation. 
3.3. Export price 
(48) 
In the absence of comments concerning the establishment of the export price, recital (179) of the provisional 
Regulation was confirmed. 
3.4. Comparison and dumping margins 
(49) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, one unrelated Union importer questioned the existence of 
dumping with regard to the product concerned or with regard to the SRW for passenger cars only. 
(50) 
Those comments were mere statements without any further substantiation and did not challenge the Commission 
provisional findings on normal value, export price, and comparison thereof. The only exporting producer 
remaining in the sample, who actually received the full calculation of the dumping margin, did not challenge those 
findings and calculations. This company was also exporting SRWs for passenger cars to the Union. Significant 
dumping margins were found with regard to both SRW for passenger cars and SRW for commercial vehicles. 
(51) 
In the absence of any comments to the methodology of calculation of residual dumping margin, the Commission 
confirmed the conclusions set out in recitals (184) to (185) of the provisional Regulation. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 65/15   

(52) 
Furthermore, in the absence of comments on the comparison and dumping margins, the Commission confirmed the 
conclusions set out in recitals (180) to (183) and recitals (186) to (187) of the provisional Regulation. 
4. INJURY 
4.1. Definition of the Union industry and Union production 
(53) 
In the absence of comments with respect to this section following the publication of the provisional Regulation, the 
Commission confirmed its conclusions set out in recitals (188) to (189) of that regulation. 
4.2. Union market and consumption 
(54) 
One unrelated importer submitted that the Commission drew wrong conclusions in recital (190) of the provisional 
Regulation claiming that wheels for passenger cars and wheels for commercial vehicles should not be considered 
together in a single investigation. According to this interested party, dumping would be significant on the wheels for 
commercial vehicles whereas that would not be the case for wheels for passenger cars. Following final disclosure the 
same importer insisted that wheels for passenger cars and wheels for commercial vehicles should not be considered 
together in a single investigation on the grounds that wheels for passenger cars represent less than 1 % of total Union 
consumption in kilos. 
(55) 
The Commission however considered that wheels for passenger cars and those for commercial vehicles have the 
same basic physical and technical characteristics and are just different types of the product concerned. Thus, the 
present investigation covered one product only. The potential differences in the magnitude of dumping between 
different types of the product concerned was in no way relevant for the assessment of the scope of an investigation, 
that is, the definition of the product concerned. In any event, the Commission found substantial dumping for all 
types of products investigated. Accordingly, even if that element were a relevant fact to be considered, quod non, the 
claim was factually incorrect. It is recalled that the findings made in recitals (190) to (192) of the provisional 
Regulation show that both China and the Union producers are similarly active in the passenger car wheels and in 
the commercial wheels, both representing a significant share of the exports from the country concerned into the 
Union and of the Union industry sales. In the Union, around 65 % of the sales in pieces are for passenger car 
wheels. Dumped imports, regardless of the product type or distribution channels, are capable of negatively affecting 
the Union industry. Therefore, the claim was rejected. 
(56) 
In the absence of other comments with respect to the Union market and consumption, the Commission confirmed 
its conclusions set out in recitals (190) to (195) of the provisional Regulation. 
4.3. Imports from the country concerned 
(57) 
In the absence of comments with respect to this section, the Commission confirmed its conclusions set out in recitals 
(196) to (204) of the provisional Regulation. 
4.4. Economic situation of the Union industry 
4.4.1. General remarks 
(58) 
In the absence of any comments, the Commission confirmed its conclusions set out in recitals (205) to (209) of the 
provisional Regulation. 
4.4.2. Macroeconomic indicators 
(59) 
In the absence of comments with respect to the macroeconomic indicators, the Commission confirmed its 
conclusions set out in recitals (210) to (218) of the provisional Regulation. 
4.4.3. Microeconomic indicators 
(60) 
In the absence of comments with respect to the microeconomic indicators, the Commission confirmed its 
conclusions set out in recitals (219) to (230) of the provisional Regulation. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 65/16                                                                                                                                             
4.3.2020   

4.4.4. Conclusion on injury 
(61) 
In the absence of comments with respect to the conclusion on injury, the Commission confirmed its conclusions set 
out in recitals (231) to (234) of the provisional Regulation. 
5. CAUSATION 
5.1. Effects of the dumped imports 
(62) 
At provisional stage, the Commission concluded that the Union industry lost sales volume and market share due to 
dumped imports from the country concerned, and that these imports undercut the sales prices of the Union 
producers. There was also evidence at provisional stage that those dumped prices caused price suppression during 
the investigation period. The latter findings are reflected in Table 8 of the provisional Regulation, which shows that 
already in 2017 the prices of Union industry sales in the Union increased less than its costs of production, whereas 
in the investigation period the Union producers were forced to sell below their costs of production. Those findings 
were confirmed at definitive stage. 
(63) 
After final disclosure and during a hearing with the Hearing Officer, a Chinese group submitted that the decline in 
the market share of the Union industry shall not be completely attributed to Chinese imports because the increase 
of the Chinese market share over the period considered was lower than the decrease of the Union producers’ 
market share in that period (9). The same group said that the Commission had not elaborated how, even if Chinese 
import prices decreased by 7 % over the period considered, the low market share held by Chinese imports had 
negatively impacted the Union market, which was dominated by Union producers. 
(64) 
The Commission notes it is not required to attribute all the injury found to the subject imports; rather the attribution 
analysis examines whether the subject imports are a cause for the injury found, which in this case it is not contested 
by any interested party. As explained in recitals (239) to (252) of the provisional Regulation, the price pressure from 
dumped imports from the PRC undermined the Union industry’s sales volumes and sales prices throughout the 
period considered but was particularly damaging in 2017 and the investigation period when costs were increasing. 
Such pressure caused severe production, sales and profitability losses in the investigation period. None of the other 
factors examined, either individually or collectively, attenuate the causal link between the dumped imports and the 
injury suffered by the Union industry. 
(65) 
In the absence of other comments with respect to attribution of the injury found to the subject imports, the 
Commission confirmed its conclusions set out in recitals (236) to (238) of the provisional Regulation. 
5.2. Effects of other factors 
(66) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, an unrelated importer questioned the reason why the 
investigation had not been opened against Turkey. According to this company, there were more imports of steel 
road wheels from Turkey than from the PRC and similar import prices during the investigation period according to 
Tables 4 and 12 of the provisional Regulation. 
(67) 
The Commission first notes that the investigation was opened against the country for which sufficient evidence of 
injurious dumping was presented at the time of the initiation of the case. In fact, the complaint contained evidence 
that import prices from Turkey were at a level high enough not to cause injury to the Union industry. Secondly, the 
Commission analysed, as explained in recital (241) of the provisional Regulation, the development of both Chinese 
and Turkish import volumes and prices over the period considered. Based on the evidence on the case file, the 
Commission concluded that Turkish prices were on average around 25 % higher than Chinese prices. 
(9) Table 3 of the provisional Regulation shows that the market share of Chinese imports in the Union market went up from 2,6 % 
in 2015 to 5,3 % in the investigation period. Table 6 of the provisional Regulation shows that Union producers’ market share in the 
Union market went down from 84,9 % in 2015 to 79,8 % in the investigation period. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 65/17   

(68) 
Following final disclosure a Chinese group noted the Turkish import volumes were higher than Chinese import 
volumes. It added that, unlike import prices from China, Turkish import prices declined between 2017 and the 
investigation period and claimed that the Commission had failed to analyse the impact of such trend on the injury 
suffered by Union producers. The party reiterated these issues during a hearing with the Hearing Officer, where it 
also claimed that during the investigation period the market share of Turkish imports (9,6 %) was significant as 
compared to the one of Chinese imports (5,3 %) and noted the market share of other imports (5,2 %). 
(69) 
The Commission reiterated that the Eurostat data did not allow for a precise picture concerning the price level of 
imports, but it also noted that Tables 4 and 12 of the provisional Regulation showed that in every year of the period 
considered and during the investigation period average Chinese import prices per kilo were below Turkish import 
prices and far below import prices from other countries. The difference in the evolution of Chinese import prices 
and the Turkish import prices is minor and deemed irrelevant, also bearing in mind the shortcomings of Eurostat 
data highlighted in recital (200) of the provisional Regulation and the uncontested findings summarized in recital 
(241) of the provisional Regulation as mentioned in recital (67) above. Consequently the Commission considers 
that Turkish import prices do not undermine the finding that Chinese imports of SRW caused injury to Union 
producers. 
(70) 
In the absence of any other comments with respect to attribution of the injury found to the subject imports, the 
Commission confirmed its conclusions set out in recitals (239) to (250) of the provisional Regulation. 
5.3. Conclusion on causation 
(71) 
On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that none of the other factors examined was capable of having 
any relevant impact on the injurious situation of the Union industry. Furthermore, none of the factors, analysed 
either individually or collectively, attenuated the causal link between the dumped imports and the injury suffered by 
the Union industry to the effect that such link would no longer be genuine and substantial, confirming the 
conclusion in recital (252) of the provisional Regulation. 
6. UNION INTEREST 
6.1. Interest of the Union industry 
(72) 
In the absence of any comments regarding the interest of Union industry, the conclusions set out in recitals (254) to 
(255) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
6.2. Interest of unrelated importers and users 
(73) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, an importer claimed that measures would have devastating 
effects on its business. Another importer mentioned that the investigation would have unreasonable negative effects 
on its importing activities, consumers and the environment but did not further explain or quantify such effects. 
Neither party provided evidence to substantiate its claim. The Commission considered that, in the absence of any 
evidence, it could not conclude that the alleged negative effects would surpass the need for measures that restore a 
level playing field in the Union SRW market. Indeed, the investigation had shown that there was sufficient supply of 
the product concerned from other sources so as to retain adequate supply at fair market prices. 
(74) 
Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, no party representing the interest of users came forward 
nor made representations. 
(75) 
In the absence of any other comments regarding the interest of unrelated importers and users, the conclusions set 
out in recitals (256) to (259) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
6.3. Conclusion on Union interest 
(76) 
On the basis of the above and in the absence of any comments, the conclusions set out in recital (260) of the 
provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 65/18                                                                                                                                             
4.3.2020   

7. DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 
7.1. Injury elimination level 
(77) 
Under Article 9(4), third paragraph, of the basic Regulation, the Commission assessed the development of import 
volumes during the period of pre-disclosure described in recital (4) above in order to reflect the additional injury in 
case there would be a further substantial rise in imports subject to the investigation in that period. According to 
Eurostat, Article 14(6) and Surveillance 2 databases, a comparison of the import volumes of the product concerned 
in the investigation period and those of the pre-disclosure period showed no further substantial rise in imports. 
Therefore, the requirements for an increase in the determination of the injury margin under Article 9(4) of the basic 
Regulation were not met and no adjustment was made to the injury margin. 
(78) 
On this basis and in the absence of any comments regarding the injury elimination level, the conclusions set out in 
recitals (262) to (269) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
7.2. Definitive measures 
(79) 
In view of the conclusions reached with regard to dumping, injury, causation and Union interest, definitive anti- 
dumping measures should be imposed in order to prevent further injury being caused to the Union industry by the 
dumped imports of the product concerned. 
(80) 
Definitive anti-dumping measures should be imposed on imports of steel road wheels originating in the PRC in 
accordance with the lesser duty rule in Article 7(2) and Article 9(4), second paragraph of the basic Regulation. 
(81) 
On the basis of the above, the definitive anti-dumping duty rates, expressed on the CIF Union border price, customs 
duty unpaid, should be as follows:                                                                
Company 
Dumping margin 
(%) 
Injury margin (%) 
Definitive anti- 
dumping duty (%) 
Xingmin Intelligent Transportation Systems Co., Ltd 
69,4 
50,3 
50,3 
Tangshan Xingmin Wheels Co., Ltd. 
69,4 
50,3 
50,3 
Xianning Xingmin Wheels Co., Ltd. 
69,4 
50,3 
50,3 
Other cooperating companies 
69,4 
50,3 
50,3 
All other companies 
80,1 
66,4 
66,4   
(82) 
The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the 
findings of this investigation. Therefore, they reflected the situation found during this investigation with respect to 
these companies. These duty rates are exclusively applicable to imports of the product concerned originating in the 
PRC and produced by the named legal entities. Imports of product concerned produced by any other company not 
specifically mentioned in the operative part of this Regulation, including entities related to those specifically 
mentioned, should be subject to the duty rate applicable to ‘all other companies’. They should not be subject to any 
of the individual anti-dumping duty rates. 
(83) 
A company may request the application of these individual anti-dumping duty rates if it changes subsequently the 
name of its entity. The request must be addressed to the Commission (10). The request must contain all the relevant 
information enabling to demonstrate that the change does not affect the right of the company to benefit from the 
duty rate which applies to it. If the change of name of the company does not affect its right to benefit from the duty 
rate which applies to it, a notice informing about the change of name will be published in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
(10) European Commission, Directorate-General for Trade, Directorate H, Rue de la Loi 170, 1040 Brussels, Belgium. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 65/19   

(84) 
To minimise the risks of circumvention due to the high difference in duty rates, special measures are needed to 
ensure the proper application of the individual anti-dumping duties. The companies with individual anti-dumping 
duties must present a valid commercial invoice to the customs authorities of the Member States. The invoice must 
conform to the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this regulation. Imports not accompanied by that invoice 
should be subject to the anti-dumping duty applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
(85) 
While presentation of this invoice is necessary for the customs authorities of the Member States to apply the 
individual rates of anti-dumping duty to imports, it is not the only element to be taken into account by the customs 
authorities. Indeed, even if presented with an invoice meeting all the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this 
Regulation, the customs authorities of Member States should carry out their usual checks and may, like in all other 
cases, require additional documents (shipping documents, etc.) for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the 
particulars contained in the declaration and ensure that the subsequent application of the rate of duty is justified, in 
compliance with customs law. 
(86) 
Should the exports by one of the companies benefiting from lower individual duty rates increase significantly in 
volume, in particular after the imposition of the measures concerned, such an increase in volume could be 
considered as constituting in itself a change in the pattern of trade due to the imposition of measures within the 
meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation. In such circumstances, an anti-circumvention investigation may 
be initiated, provided the conditions for so doing are met. This investigation may, inter alia, examine the need for 
the removal of individual duty rate(s) and the consequent imposition of a country-wide duty. 
(87) 
To ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duties, the anti-dumping duty for all other companies should 
apply not only to the non-cooperating exporting producers in this investigation, but also to the producers which 
did not have exports to the Union during the investigation period. 
(88) 
Statistics of SRW are frequently expressed in number of pieces. However, there is no such supplementary unit for 
SRW specified in the Combined Nomenclature laid down in Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 (11). 
It is therefore necessary to provide that not only the weight in kg or tonnes but also the number of pieces for the 
imports of the product concerned must be entered in the declaration for release for free circulation. Pieces should 
be indicated for TARIC codes 8708 70 10 80, 8708 70 10 85, 8708 70 99 20, 8708 70 99 80, 8716 90 90 95, and 
8716 90 90 97. 
7.3. Definitive collection of the provisional duties 
(89) 
In view of the dumping margins found and given the level of the injury caused to the Union industry, the amounts 
secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty, imposed by the provisional Regulation, should be definitively 
collected. 
8. UNDERTAKING OFFER 
(90) 
In its submission after provisional disclosure, one of the sampled Chinese exporting producers signalled its 
willingness to offer a price undertaking. However, the preliminary offer made by the company lacked the most 
important element of undertaking – the level of a minimum import price. The Commission therefore could not 
accept such a request. 
9. FINAL PROVISION 
(91) 
In view of Article 109 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council (12), 
when an amount is to be reimbursed following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the 
interest to be paid should be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, 
as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union on the first calendar day of each month. 
(92) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by 
Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036, 
(11) Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff 
(OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1). 
(12) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable 
to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) 
No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision No 541/2014/EU 
and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 65/20                                                                                                                                             
4.3.2020   

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is imposed on imports of wheels of steel designed for use on the road, whether or not 
with their accessories and whether or not fitted with tyres, designed for: 
— Road tractors, 
— Motor vehicles for the transport of persons and/or the transport of goods, 
— Special purpose motor vehicles (for example, fire fighting vehicles, spraying lorries), 
— Trailers or semi-trailers, not mechanically propelled, of the above listed vehicles 
originating in the People’s Republic of China, currently falling under CN codes ex 8708 70 10, ex 8708 70 99 and 
ex 8716 90 90 (TARIC codes 8708 70 10 80, 8708 70 10 85, 8708 70 99 20, 8708 70 99 80, 8716 90 90 95 and 
8716 90 90 97) (‘the product concerned’). 
The following products are excluded: 
— Road wheels of steel for the industrial assembly of pedestrian-controlled tractors currently falling under subheading 
8701 10, 
— Wheels for road quad bikes, 
— Wheel centres in star form, cast in one piece, of steel, 
— Wheels for motor vehicles, specifically designed for uses other than on public roads (for example, wheels for 
agricultural tractors or forestry tractors, for forklifts, for pushback tractors, for dumpers designed for off-highway use), 
— Wheels for passenger car trailers and for caravans, not mechanically propelled, with a rim diameter of not more than 16 
inches, 
— Wheels for trailers or semi-trailers, specifically designed for uses other than on public roads (for example, wheels for 
agricultural trailers and other trailed agricultural equipment used in fields). 
2.
The rates of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price, before duty, of the 
product described in paragraph 1 and manufactured by the companies listed below, shall be as follows:                                                              
Company 
Definitive anti- 
dumping duty (%) 
TARIC additional code 
Xingmin Intelligent Transportation Systems Co., Ltd 
50,3 
C508 
Tangshan Xingmin Wheels Co., Ltd. 
50,3 
C509 
Xianning Xingmin Wheels Co., Ltd. 
50,3 
C510 
Other cooperating companies listed in the Annex 
50,3 
See Annex 
All other companies 
66,4 
C999   
3.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be 
conditional upon presentation to the Member States’ customs authorities of a valid commercial invoice, on which shall 
appear a declaration dated and signed by an official of the entity issuing such invoice, identified by name and function, 
drafted as follows: ‘I, the undersigned, certify that the (pieces) of (product concerned) sold for export to the European Union covered by 
this invoice was manufactured by (company name and address) (TARIC additional code) in [country concerned]. I declare that the 
information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.’ If no such invoice is presented, the duty applicable to all other 
companies shall apply. 
4.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 65/21   

Article 2 
The amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty under Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1693 shall 
be definitively collected. 
Article 3 
Where any producer from the People’s Republic of China provides sufficient evidence to the Commission that 
(i) 
it did not export the goods described in Article 1(1) originating in the People’s Republic of China during the period of 
investigation (1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018), 
(ii) it is not related to an exporter or producer subject to the measures imposed by this Regulation; and 
(iii) it has either actually exported the goods concerned or has entered into an irrevocable contractual obligation to export 
a significant quantity to the Union after the end of the period of investigation, 
the Commission may amend the Annex in order to attribute to that producer the duty applicable to cooperating producers 
not in the sample, i.e. 50,3 %. 
Article 4 
Where a declaration for release for free circulation is presented in respect of the products referred to in Article 1, the 
number of pieces of the products imported shall be entered in the relevant field of that declaration. 
Article 5 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 3 March 2020.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 65/22                                                                                                                                             
4.3.2020   

ANNEX 
Chinese cooperating exporting producers not sampled 
Name 
TARIC additional code 
Dongfeng Automobile Chassis System Co., Ltd (also called ‘Dongfeng Automotive Wheel 
Co., Ltd’) 
C511 
Hangzhou Forlong Impex Co., Ltd 
C512 
Hangzhou Xingjie Auto Parts Manufacturing Co., Ltd 
C513 
Jiaxing Henko Auto Spare Parts Co., Ltd 
C514 
Jining Junda Machinery Manufacturing Co., Ltd 
C515 
Nantong Tuenz Corporate Co., Ltd 
C516 
Ningbo Luxiang Autoparts Manufacturing Co., Ltd 
C517 
Shandong Zhengshang Wheel Technology Co., Ltd 
C518 
Shandong Zhengyu Wheel Group Co., Ltd 
C519 
Xiamen Sunrise Group Co., Ltd 
C520 
Yantai Leeway Electromechanical Equipment Co., Ltd 
C521 
Yongkang Yuefei Wheel Co., Ltd 
C522 
Zhejiang Jingu Co., Ltd 
C523 
Zhejiang Fengchi Mechanical Co., Ltd 
C524 
Zhengxing Wheel Group Co., Ltd 
C525 
Zhenjiang R & D Auto Parts Co., Ltd 
C526   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 65/23