COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) 2020/1149 
of 3 August 2020 
amending Annex XVII to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals 
(REACH) as regards diisocyanates 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 
concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), establishing a European 
Chemicals Agency, amending Directive 1999/45/EC and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 793/93 and Commission 
Regulation (EC) No 1488/94 as well as Council Directive 76/769/EEC and Commission Directives 91/155/EEC, 
93/67/EEC, 93/105/EC and 2000/21/EC (1), and in particular Article 68(1) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Diisocyanates have a harmonised classification as a respiratory sensitiser category 1 and as a skin sensitiser category 
1 according to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (2). Diisocyanates are 
used as chemical building blocks in a wide range of sectors and applications, in particular in foams, sealants and 
coatings, inter alia, throughout the Union. 
(2) 
On 6 October 2016, Germany submitted to the European Chemicals Agency (‘the Agency’) a dossier (3) pursuant to 
Article 69(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (‘the Annex XV dossier’), in order to initiate the restriction 
procedure set out in Articles 69 to 73 of that Regulation. The Annex XV dossier indicated that respiratory 
sensitisation, due to both dermal and inhalation exposure to diisocyanates, leads to occupational asthma in workers, 
which has been identified as a significant occupational health problem in the Union. The annual number of new 
occupational diseases caused by diisocyanates (estimated to be more than 5 000 cases) is considered unacceptably 
high. The Annex XV dossier demonstrated that action on a Union-wide basis is necessary and proposed to restrict 
the industrial and professional use, as well as the placing on the market, of diisocyanates on their own, and as 
constituent of other substances and in mixtures. 
(3) 
The restriction proposed in the Annex XV dossier aims to limit the use of diisocyanates in industrial and professional 
applications to those cases where a combination of technical and organisational measures are implemented, and a 
minimum standardised training course has been followed. Information on how to get access to the course should be 
communicated throughout the supply chain and it should be the responsibility of the operators placing these 
substances and mixtures on the market to ensure that training courses are available to the recipients of such 
substances or mixtures. 
(4) 
On 5 December 2017, the Agency’s Committee for Risk Assessment (‘RAC’) adopted its opinion (4) concluding that 
the proposed restriction, as modified by RAC, is the most appropriate Union-wide measure to address the identified 
risks arising from exposure to these substances in terms of effectiveness in reducing those risks. Moreover, it 
considered that the implementation of the modified proposed restriction would reduce as well the number of 
diisocyanate-related cases of dermatitis. 
(5) 
RAC concluded that appropriate training is a basic necessity, and that every worker handling diisocyanates should 
have a sufficient knowledge of the hazards of these substances and an awareness of the risks related with their uses, 
as well as sufficient knowledge of good working practices and appropriate risk management measures (RMMs), 
including the correct use of appropriate personal protective equipment. RAC notes that particular training measures 
are needed to raise the awareness about the importance of health protection by means of appropriate RMMs and safe 
handling practices. 
(1) OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1. 
(2) Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on classification, labelling and 
packaging of substances and mixtures amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC, and amending Regulation 
(EC) No 1907/2006 (OJ L 353, 31.12.2008, p. 1). 
(3) https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/63c411e5-cf0f-dc5e-ff83-1e8de7e4e282 
(4) https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/737bceac-35c3-77fb-ba7a-0e417a81aa4a 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 252/24                                                                                                                                           
4.8.2020   
(6) 
RAC considered that the cut-off limit of 0,1 % by weight, set for diisocyanates in a substance or in a mixture, 
corresponds to the lowest concentration limit existing for specific diisocyanates classified as respiratory sensitisers 
category 1. RAC also agreed with the dossier submitter that the implementation of an indicative or binding 
occupational exposure limit would not be sufficient to reduce the number of occupational asthma cases to a level as 
low as possible, since currently, no threshold is known for the sensitising effect of diisocyanates. 
(7) 
On 15 March 2018, the Agency’s Committee for Socio-Economic Analysis (‘SEAC’) adopted its opinion (5), in which 
it confirmed RAC’s conclusion that, in view of its socioeconomic benefits and costs, the proposed restriction is the 
most appropriate Union-wide measure to address the identified risks. Furthermore, SEAC concluded that the 
proposed restriction is affordable for the affected supply chains. 
(8) 
SEAC recommended a 48 month deferral of application of the restriction in order to provide sufficient time to all 
actors for the full implementation of the restriction requirements. 
(9) 
The Agency’s Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement, referred to in Article 76(1)(f) of Regulation (EC) 
No 1907/2006, was consulted on the RAC and SEAC opinions concerning the proposed restriction and its 
recommendations have been taken into account. 
(10) 
On 9 May 2018, the Agency submitted the opinions of RAC and SEAC to the Commission. Based on those opinions, 
the Commission concludes that an unacceptable risk to human health arises from the use or placing on the market 
of diisocyanates, on their own, as a constituent of other substances and in mixtures. The Commission considers that 
those risks need to be addressed on a Union-wide basis. 
(11) 
Taking into account the Annex XV dossier as well as the opinions of RAC and SEAC, the Commission considers that 
a minimum requirement for training should be provided to industrial and professional users without prejudice to 
stricter national obligations in the Member States. The Commission also considers that information of this 
requirement should be included in the packaging. 
(12) 
For the purpose of possible future revisions of the current restriction, Member States should report to the 
Commission in accordance with Article 117(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 any established training 
requirements, the number of reported cases on occupational asthma and occupational respiratory and dermal 
disease, any national occupational exposure levels and information on enforcement activities. 
(13) 
Without prejudice to Union occupational safety and health legislation, in particular the Council Directive 98/24/EC 
on chemical agents (6), this restriction is intended to enhance the employers’ capacity to achieve a higher level of risk 
control. Small and medium sized enterprises will benefit from this act, which will further enhance the 
implementation of the present occupational safety and health requirements by providing diisocyanates-specific 
training programmes throughout the supply chain. 
(14) 
Economic operators should be granted a period of sufficient length to adapt to the new requirements. A transition 
period of 3 years is appropriate to allow the concerned workforce to perform the required training. 
(15) 
Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 should therefore be amended accordingly. 
(16) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established under 
Article 133 of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Annex XVII to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. 
(5) https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/d6794aa4-8e3a-6780-d079-77237244f5f9 
(6) Council Directive 98/24/EC of 7 April 1998 on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to chemical 
agents at work (OJ L 131, 5.5.1998, p. 11). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.8.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 252/25   
Article 2 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 3 August 2020.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 252/26                                                                                                                                           
4.8.2020   
ANNEX 
In Annex XVII to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006, the following entry is added:                                                              
‘74. Diisocyanates, O = C=N- 
R-N = C=O, with R an alipha­
tic or aromatic hydrocarbon 
unit of unspecified length 
1. 
Shall not be used as substances on their own, as a constituent in other substances or in 
mixtures for industrial and professional use(s) after 24 August 2023, unless: 
(a) the concentration of diisocyanates individually and in combination is less than 
0,1 % by weight, or 
(b) the employer or self-employed ensures that industrial or professional user(s) have 
successfully completed training on the safe use of diisocyanates prior to the use of 
the substance(s) or mixture(s). 
2. 
Shall not be placed on the market as substances on their own, as a constituent in other 
substances or in mixtures for industrial and professional use(s) after 24 February 
2022, unless: 
(a) the concentration of diisocyanates individually and in combination is less than 
0,1 % by weight, or 
(b) the supplier ensures that the recipient of the substance(s) or mixture(s) is provided 
with information on the requirements referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 and 
the following statement is placed on the packaging, in a manner that is visibly 
distinct from the rest of the label information: “As from 24 August 2023 
adequate training is required before industrial or professional use”. 
3. 
For the purpose of this entry “industrial and professional user(s)” means any worker or 
self-employed worker handling diisocyanates on their own, as a constituent in other 
substances or in mixtures for industrial and professional use(s) or supervising these 
tasks. 
4. 
The training referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 shall include the instructions for 
the control of dermal and inhalation exposure to diisocyanates at the workplace 
without prejudice to any national occupational exposure limit value or other 
appropriate risk management measures at national level. Such training shall be 
conducted by an expert on occupational safety and health with competence acquired 
by relevant vocational training. That training shall cover as a minimum: 
(a) the training elements in point (a) of paragraph 5 for all industrial and professional 
use(s). 
(b) the training elements in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 5 for the following uses: 
— handling open mixtures at ambient temperature (including foam tunnels); 
— spraying in a ventilated booth; 
— application by roller; 
— application by brush; 
— application by dipping and pouring; 
— mechanical post treatment (e.g. cutting) of not fully cured articles which are 
not warm anymore; 
— cleaning and waste; 
— any other uses with similar exposure through the dermal and/or inhalation 
route; 
(c) the training elements in points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 5 for the following uses: 
— handling incompletely cured articles (e.g. freshly cured, still warm); 
— foundry applications; 
— maintenance and repair that needs access to equipment; 
— open handling of warm or hot formulations (> 45 °C); 
— spraying in open air, with limited or only natural ventilation (includes large 
industry working halls) and spraying with high energy (e.g. foams, elastomers); 
— and any other uses with similar exposure through the dermal and/or 
inhalation route. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.8.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 252/27   
5. 
Training elements: 
(a) general training, including on-line training, on: 
— chemistry of diisocyanates; 
— toxicity hazards (including acute toxicity); 
— exposure to diisocyanates; 
— occupational exposure limit values; 
— how sensitisation can develop; 
— odour as indication of hazard; 
— importance of volatility for risk; 
— viscosity, temperature, and molecular weight of diisocyanates; 
— personal hygiene; 
— personal protective equipment needed, including practical instructions for its 
correct use and its limitations; 
— risk of dermal contact and inhalation exposure; 
— risk in relation to application process used; 
— skin and inhalation protection scheme; 
— ventilation; 
— cleaning, leakages, maintenance; 
— discarding empty packaging; 
— protection of bystanders; 
— identification of critical handling stages; 
— specific national code systems (if applicable); 
— behaviour-based safety; 
— certification or documented proof that training has been successfully 
completed 
(b) intermediate level training, including on-line training, on: 
— additional behaviour-based aspects; 
— maintenance; 
— management of change; 
— evaluation of existing safety instructions; 
— risk in relation to application process used; 
— certification or documented proof that training has been successfully 
completed 
(c) advanced training, including on-line training, on: 
— any additional certification needed for the specific uses covered; 
— spraying outside a spraying booth; 
— open handling of hot or warm formulations (> 45 °C); 
— certification or documented proof that training has been successfully 
completed 
6. 
The training shall comply with the provisions set by the Member State in which the 
industrial or professional user(s) operate. Member States may implement or continue 
to apply their own national requirements for the use of the substance(s) or mixture(s), 
as long as the minimum requirements set out in paragraphs 4 and 5 are met. 
7. 
The supplier referred to in point (b) of paragraph 2 shall ensure that the recipient is 
provided with training material and courses pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 5 in the 
official language(s) of the Member State(s) where the substance(s) or mixture(s) are 
supplied. The training shall take into consideration the specificity of the products 
supplied, including composition, packaging, and design. 
8. 
The employer or self-employed shall document the successful completion of the 
training referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5. The training shall be renewed at least 
every five years. 
9. 
Member States shall include in their reports pursuant to Article 117(1) the following 
information: 
(a) any established training requirements and other risk management measures 
related to the industrial and professional uses of diisocyanates foreseen in 
national law; 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 252/28                                                                                                                                           
4.8.2020   
(b) the number of cases of reported and recognised occupational asthma and 
occupational respiratory and dermal diseases in relation to diisocyanates; 
(c) national exposure limits for diisocyanates, if there are any; 
(d) information about enforcement activities related to this restriction. 
10. This restriction shall apply without prejudice to other Union legislation on the 
protection of safety and health of workers at the workplace.’   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.8.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 252/29   
