COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2023/112 
of 18 January 2023 
imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain aluminium road wheels originating 
in the People’s Republic of China following an expiry review pursuant to Article 11(2) of 
Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on 
protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (‘the basic Regulation’) ( 1 ), 
and in particular Article 11(2) thereof, 
Whereas: 
1. PROCEDURE 
1.1. 
Previous investigations and measures in force 
(1) 
By Implementing Regulation (EU) No 964/2010 ( 2 ), the Council imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of 
certain aluminium wheels originating in People’s Republic of China (‘the PRC’ or ‘China’ or ‘country concerned’) 
(‘the original measures’). The investigation that led to the imposition of the original measures will hereinafter be 
referred to as ‘the original investigation’. 
(2) 
Following an expiry review investigation pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation, the European 
Commission (‘the Commission’) prolonged the original measures for another five years as from 25 January 
2017 by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/109 ( 3 ) (‘previous expiry review investigation’). 
(3) 
The measures in place are in the form of an ad valorem duty established at 22,3 % on imports from the PRC. 
1.2. 
Request for an expiry review 
(4) 
Following the publication of a notice of impending expiry ( 4 ) the Commission received a request for a review 
pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation. 
(5) 
The request for review was submitted on 21 October 2021 by the Association of European Wheels Manufacturers 
(EUWA) (‘the applicant’) on behalf of the Union industry of certain aluminium wheels in the sense of Article 5(4) 
of the basic Regulation. The request for review was based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would 
likely result in continuation of dumping and continuation or recurrence of injury to the Union industry. 
(6) 
The complainants requested that their names be kept confidential for fear that they could face retaliation by 
customers. The Commission took the view that there was indeed a serious risk of retaliation and accepted that the 
names of the complainants should not be disclosed. In order to effectively grant anonymity, the names of the 
other Union producers were also kept confidential, as to avoid that by deduction the names of the complainants 
could be identified.
EN 
L 18/66 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023 
( 1 ) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21. 
( 2 ) Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 964/2010 of 25 October 2010 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting 
definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain aluminium road wheels originating in the People’s Republic of China 
(OJ L 282, 28.10.2010, p. 1). 
( 3 ) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/109 of 23 January 2017 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of 
certain aluminium road wheels originating in the People’s Republic of China following an expiry review pursuant to Article 11(2) of 
Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 18, 24.1.2017, p. 1). 
( 4 ) Notice of the impending expiry of certain anti-dumping measures (OJ C 47, 10.2.2015, p. 4).

 
1.3. 
Initiation of an expiry review 
(7) 
Having determined, after consulting the Committee established by Article 15(1) of the basic Regulation, that 
sufficient evidence existed for the initiation of an expiry review, the Commission initiated, on 20 January 2022, 
by a Notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union ( 5 ) (‘the Notice of Initiation’), an expiry review 
with regard to imports into the Union of certain aluminium wheels originating in China on the basis of 
Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation. 
1.4. 
Review investigation period and period considered 
(8) 
The investigation of continuation of dumping covered the period from 1 October 2020 to 30 September 2021 
(‘the review investigation period’). The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of the likelihood of a 
continuation or recurrence of injury covered the period from 1 January 2018 to the end of the review investi­
gation period (‘the period considered’). 
1.5. 
Interested parties and request for anonymity 
(9) 
In the Notice of Initiation, interested parties were invited to contact the Commission in order to participate in the 
investigation. In addition, the Commission specifically informed the applicants, other known Union producers, 
the known producers in the PRC and the authorities of the People’s Republic of China, known importers, users, 
traders, as well as associations known to be concerned about the initiation of the expiry review investigation and 
invited them to participate. 
(10) 
Interested parties had an opportunity to comment on the initiation of the expiry review and to request a hearing 
with the Commission and/or the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings. No comments were made and no requests 
for a hearing were received. 
Sampling 
(11) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it might sample the interested parties in accordance with 
Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
Sampling of Union producers 
(12) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it had provisionally selected a sample of Union producers. 
Pursuant to Article 17 of the basic Regulation, the criterion used for the selection of the sample was the largest 
representative quantities of production of the like product in the Union during the investigation period, 
i.e. 1 October 2020 – 30 September 2021. This provisional sample consisted of three Union producers, 
located in three different Member States. The sample accounted for almost 20 % of the total production 
quantity of the known Union producers of the like product, and it ensures a good geographical spread. The 
Commission invited interested parties to comment on the provisional sample but no comments were received. 
The Commission thus confirmed the provisionally selected sample as the definitive sample. 
Sampling of unrelated importers 
(13) 
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked unrelated 
importers to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. No unrelated importers, however, 
came forward. 
Sampling of exporting producers in the PRC 
(14) 
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked all known 
exporting producers in China to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. In addition, the 
Commission asked the Mission of the People’s Republic of China to the European Union to identify and/or 
contact other exporting producers, if any, that could be interested in participating in the investigation. 
(15) 
One exporting producer in the country concerned provided the requested information and agreed to be included 
in the sample. In view of the low number, the Commission decided that sampling was not necessary. 
1.6. 
Questionnaire replies to the questionnaire and verification visits 
(16) 
The Commission sent a questionnaire concerning the existence of significant distortions in the PRC within the 
meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation to the Government of the People’s Republic of China (‘GOC’).
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/67 
( 5 ) Notice of the impending expiry of certain anti-dumping measures (OJ C 29, 20.1.2022, p. 34).

 
(17) 
The Commission sent questionnaires to three Union producers, the complainant and one exporting producer. At 
the initiation the same questionnaires were made online on the day of initiation on DG Trade’s website ( 6 ). 
(18) 
Questionnaire replies were received from the three sampled Union producers. The exporting producer that came 
forward during the sampling did not provide a questionnaire reply. No reply was received from any of the 
unrelated importers. None of the users provided a questionnaire or came forward during the investigation. The 
GOC did also not provide a questionnaire reply. 
(19) 
Because there was no cooperation from the Chinese exporting producers or the GOC, the findings with regard to 
dumping and injury were made on the basis of facts available pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation. The 
Mission of the People’s Republic of China to the European Union was informed accordingly. No comments were 
received. 
(20) 
The Commission sought all the information deemed necessary for the investigation. In accordance with the 
Notice on the consequences of the COVID-19 outbreak on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations, one 
sampled Union producer was verified through remote crosschecking ( 7 ). 
(21) 
The Commission carried out verification visits pursuant to Article 16 of the basic Regulation in the premises of 
two sampled Union producers. 
1.7. 
Subsequent procedure 
(22) 
On 18 November 2022, the Commission disclosed the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it 
intended to maintain the anti-dumping duties in force. All parties were granted a period within which they could 
make comments on the disclosure. 
(23) 
The comments made by interested parties were considered by the Commission and taken into account, where 
appropriate. The parties who so requested were granted a hearing. 
2. PRODUCT UNDER REVIEW AND LIKE PRODUCT 
2.1. 
Product under review 
(24) 
The product under review is aluminium road wheels of the motor vehicles of CN headings 8701 to 8705, 
whether or not with their accessories and whether or not fitted with tyres and originating in the PRC (‘the 
product concerned’ or ‘aluminium wheels’ or ‘ARW’), currently falling under CN code(s) ex 8708 70 10 and 
ex 8708 70 50 (TARIC codes 8708 70 10 15, 8708 70 10 50, 8708 70 50 15 and 8708 70 50 50). 
(25) 
The product concerned is sold in the Union via two distribution channels: to the original equipment manu­
facturers (‘OEM’) segment and to the aftermarket (AM) segment. In the OEM segment, car manufacturers organise 
tender procedures for ARWs and are often involved in the process of developing a new wheel which is associated 
with their brand. Both Union producers and Chinese exporters can compete in the same tenders. In the AM 
sector, ARWs are usually designed, developed and branded by ARW producers to be then sold to wholesalers, 
retailers, tuning companies, car repair shops, etc. 
(26) 
As in the original investigation, it was established that although OEM and AM aluminium wheels have different 
distribution channels they share the same physical and technical characteristics and are interchangeable. They are 
therefore considered to form one single product. 
2.2. 
Like product 
(27) 
As established in the previous expiry review, this expiry review investigation confirmed that the following 
products have the same basic physical, chemical and technical characteristics as well as the same basic uses: 
— the product concerned; 
— the product produced and sold on the domestic market of PRC; and 
— the product produced and sold in the Union by the Union industry.
EN 
L 18/68 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023 
( 6 ) https://tron.trade.ec.europa.eu/investigations/case-view?caseId=2575 
( 7 ) OJ C 86, 16.3.2020, p. 6.

 
(28) 
These products are therefore considered to be like products within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the basic 
Regulation. 
2.3. 
Claims regarding product scope 
(29) 
The Commission did not receive any claim regarding the product scope. 
3. DUMPING 
(30) 
In accordance with Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the expiry of the 
measure in force would be likely to lead to a continuation or recurrence of dumping from the PRC. 
3.1. 
Preliminary remarks 
(31) 
As mentioned in recital 19, no exporter/producer from China cooperated in the investigation. Therefore, the 
Commission informed the authorities of the PRC that due to the absence of cooperation, the Commission might 
apply Article 18 of the basic Regulation concerning the findings with regard to the PRC. No reply was received, 
and therefore the Commission decided to apply Article 18. 
(32) 
Consequently, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the findings in relation to the likelihood of 
continuation or recurrence of dumping were based on facts available, in particular information in the request for 
review, and information obtained from cooperating parties in the course of the review investigation (namely, the 
applicant and the sampled Union producers). 
(33) 
During the review investigation period, imports of certain aluminium wheels from China continued albeit at 
lower levels than in the investigation period of the original investigation. According to Eurostat imports of certain 
aluminium wheels from China accounted for about 3,4 % of the Union market in the review investigation period 
compared to 12,4 % market share during the original investigation, and 3,2 % during the previous expiry review. 
3.2. 
Procedure for the determination of the normal value under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation 
for the imports of the product under review originating in the PRC 
(34) 
Given the sufficient evidence available at the initiation of the investigation tending to show, with regard to the 
PRC, the existence of significant distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation, the Commission initiated the investigation on the basis of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(35) 
In order to obtain information it deemed necessary for its investigation with regard to the alleged significant 
distortions, the Commission sent a questionnaire to the GOC. In addition, in the Notice of Initiation, the had 
Commission invited all interested parties to make their views known, submit information and provide supporting 
evidence regarding the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation within 37 days of the date of 
publication of the Notice of Initiation in the Official Journal of the European Union. No questionnaire reply was 
received from the GOC and no submission on the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation was 
received within the deadline. 
(36) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission also specified that, in view of the evidence available, it may need to 
select an appropriate representative country pursuant to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation for the purpose of 
determining the normal value based on undistorted prices or benchmarks. The Commission further stated that it 
would examine other possibly appropriate countries in accordance with the criteria set out in first indent of 
Article 2(6a) of the Basic regulation. 
(37) 
On 12 May 2022, the Commission informed interested parties by a Note the relevant sources it intended to use 
for the determination of the normal value, with Brazil as the representative country. It also informed interested 
parties that it would establish selling, general and administrative costs (‘SG&A’) and profits based on available 
information for the companies Iochpe Maxion S.A. and Neo Rodas S.A, producers in the representative country. 
No comments were received. 
3.3. 
Normal value 
(38) 
According to Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, ‘the normal value shall normally be based on the prices paid or 
payable, in the ordinary course of trade, by independent customers in the exporting country’.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/69

 
(39) 
However, according to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, ‘in case it is determined […] that it is not 
appropriate to use domestic prices and costs in the exporting country due to the existence in that country of 
significant distortions within the meaning of point (b), the normal value shall be constructed exclusively on the 
basis of costs of production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks’, and ‘shall include an undis­
torted and reasonable amount of administrative, selling and general costs and for profits’ (‘administrative, selling 
and general costs’ is refereed hereinafter as ‘SG&A’). 
(40) 
As further explained below, the Commission concluded in the present investigation that, based on the evidence 
available, and in view of the lack of cooperation of the GOC and the exporting producers, the application of 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation was appropriate. 
3.3.1. Existence of significant distortions 
(41) 
In recent investigations concerning the aluminium sector in the PRC ( 8 ), the Commission found that significant 
distortions in the sense of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation were present. 
(42) 
In those investigations, the Commission found that there is substantial government intervention in the PRC 
resulting in a distortion of the effective allocation of resources in line with market principles ( 9 ). In particular, 
the Commission concluded that in the aluminium sector not only does a substantial degree of ownership by the 
GOC persists in the sense of Article 2(6a)(b), first indent of the basic Regulation ( 10 ) but the GOC is also in a 
position to interfere with prices and costs through State presence in firms in the sense of Article 2(6a)(b), second 
indent of the basic Regulation ( 11 ). The Commission further found that the State’s presence and intervention in the 
financial markets, as well as in the provision of raw materials and inputs, have an additional distorting effect on 
the market. Indeed, overall, the system of planning in the PRC results in resources being concentrated in sectors 
designated as strategic or otherwise politically important by the GOC, rather than being allocated in line with 
market forces ( 12 ). Moreover, the Commission concluded that the Chinese bankruptcy and property laws do not 
work properly in the sense of Article 2(6a)(b), fourth indent of the basic Regulation, thus generating distortions in 
particular when maintaining insolvent firms afloat and when allocating land use rights in the PRC ( 13 ). In the same
EN 
L 18/70 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023 
( 8 ) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402 of 9 March 2022 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of 
certain aluminium foil originating in the People’s Republic of China following an expiry review pursuant to Article 11(2) of 
Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 83, 10.3.2022, p. 7); Commission Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2021/546 of 29 March 2021 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and definitively collecting the provisional 
duty imposed on imports of aluminium extrusions originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 109, 30.3.2021, p. 1); 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582 of 9 April 2021 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of 
aluminium flat-rolled products originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 124, 12.4.2021, p. 40); Commission Imple­
menting Regulation (EU) 2021/983 of 17 June 2021 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of aluminium 
converter foil originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 216, 18.6.2021, p. 142). 
( 9 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402, recitals 50-52; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 125-131 and 185-188; 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recitals 80-86 and 140-143. 
( 10 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402, recital 39; Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1428 of 12 October 2020 
imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of aluminium extrusions originating in the People’s Republic of China 
(OJ L 336, 13.10.2020, p. 8), recitals 98-104; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 132-137; Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2021/983, recitals 87-92. 
( 11 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402, recitals 40-42; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 138-143; Commission 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recitals 93-98. While the right to appoint and to remove key management personnel in 
SOEs by the relevant State authorities, as provided for in the Chinese legislation, can be considered to reflect the corresponding 
ownership rights, CCP cells in enterprises, state owned and private alike, represent another important channel through which the 
State can interfere with business decisions. According to the PRC’s company law, a CCP organisation is to be established in every 
company (with at least three CCP members as specified in the CCP Constitution) and the company shall provide the necessary 
conditions for the activities of the party organisation. In the past, this requirement appears not to have always been followed or 
strictly enforced. However, since at least 2016 the CCP has reinforced its claims to control business decisions in SOEs as a matter 
of political principle. The CCP is also reported to exercise pressure on private companies to put ‘patriotism’ first and to follow 
party discipline. In 2017, it was reported that party cells existed in 70 % of some 1,86 million privately owned companies, with 
growing pressure for the CCP organisations to have a final say over the business decisions within their respective companies. These 
rules are of general application throughout the Chinese economy, across all sectors, including the producers of aluminium wheels 
and the suppliers of their inputs. 
( 12 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402, recitals 43-45; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 144-166; Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recitals 99-120. 
( 13 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402, recital 46; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 167-171; Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recitals 121-125.

 
vein, the Commission found distortions of wage costs in the aluminium sector in the sense of Article 2(6a)(b), 
fifth indent of the basic Regulation ( 14 ), as well as distortions in the financial markets in the sense of 
Article 2(6a)(b), sixth indent of the basic Regulation, in particular concerning access to capital for corporate 
actors in the PRC ( 15 ). 
(43) 
Like in previous investigations concerning the aluminium sector in the PRC, the Commission examined in the 
present investigation whether it was appropriate or not to use domestic prices and costs in the PRC, due to the 
existence of significant distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. The 
Commission did so on the basis of the evidence available on the file, including the evidence contained in the 
request, as well as in the Commission Staff Working document on significant distortions in the economy of the 
People’s Republic of China for the purposes of trade defence investigations ( 16 ) (‘the Report’), which relies on 
publicly available sources. That analysis covered the examination of the substantial government interventions in 
the PRC’s economy in general, but also the specific market situation in the relevant sector including the product 
under review. The Commission further supplemented these evidentiary elements with its own research on the 
various criteria relevant to confirm the existence of significant distortions in the PRC, as also found by its 
previous investigations in this respect. 
(44) 
The request in this case referred to the Report, in particular to the sections concerning the aluminium sector and 
state-owned enterprises, a VAT policy and an export tax impacting exports, as well as to previous Commission 
investigations of aluminium and downstream products ( 17 ). Moreover, the request referred independent studies 
which conclude that the Chinese aluminium market is distorted, such as the Report on overcapacities in China 
issued by the European Union Chamber of commerce in Beijing, and the 2019 OECD study ‘Measuring 
distortions in international markets: the aluminium value chain’ ( 18 ). These studies were placed in the investigation 
file at the initiation stage. No comments on the studies were provided by any interested party. 
(45) 
In the aluminium sector, a substantial degree of ownership and control by the GOC persists in the sense of 
Article 2(6a)(b), first indent of the basic Regulation. Many of the largest producers are owned by the State. Since 
there was no cooperation from Chinese exporters of the product under review, the exact ratio of the private and 
state owned producers could not be determined. However, the investigation confirmed that in the aluminium 
wheels sector, a number of large producers are SOEs, including the CITIC Dicastal Wheel Manufacturing (the 
world’s largest manufacturer of aluminium wheels according to the company’s website ( 19 )) and Dongfeng Motors 
Group (including two subsidiaries producing aluminium wheels: Dongfeng Automotive Wheel Suizhou and 
Dongfeng Maxion Wheels Suizhou). 
(46) 
As to the GOC being in a position to interfere with prices and costs through State presence in firms in the sense 
of Article 2(6a)(b), second indent of the basic Regulation, both public and privately owned enterprises in the 
aluminium sector are subject to policy supervision and guidance. During the investigation, the Commission 
established the existence of personal connections between producers of the product under review and the 
China Communist Party (‘CCP’), such as CCP members among the senior management or members of the 
board of directors in a number of companies manufacturing the product under review. For example, in CITIC 
Dicastal Wheel Manufacturing, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is at the same time Party Committee 
Secretary, the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors works also as Deputy Party Committee Secretary and 
the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors is Deputy Party Committee Secretary. Also privately owned enterprises 
in the aluminium wheels industry are subject to party interference, for example in Zhejian Wanfeng Aowei Auto 
Wheel, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is also Deputy Secretary of the Party Committee and at least one 
member of the Board of Directors is also a member of the Party Organisation.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/71 
( 14 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402, recital 47; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 172-173; Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recitals 126-127. 
( 15 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/402, recital 48; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 174-184; Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recitals 128-139. 
( 16 ) Commission Staff Working document on significant distortions in the economy of the People’s Republic of China, SWD(2017) 
483 final/2, 20.12.2017, available at: https://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/docs/2017/december/tradoc_156474.pdf 
( 17 ) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/915 of 4 June 2019 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of 
certain aluminium foil in rolls originating in the People’s Republic of China following an expiry review under Article 11(2) of 
Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 146, 5.6.2019, p. 63), Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2021/546; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582. 
( 18 ) OECD Trade Policy Papers, No 218, OECD Publishing, Paris, available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/c82911ab-en 
( 19 ) https://www.citic.com/ar2020/en/manufacturing/auto-components/

 
(47) 
Both public and privately owned enterprises in the aluminium wheel sector are subject to policy supervision and 
guidance. Many producers of the product under review explicitly emphasise party building activities on their 
websites, have party members in the company management and underline their affiliation to the CCP. The 
investigation revealed party building activities in a number of aluminium wheels producers, both in the SOEs 
and privately owned enterprises. As an example, the CITIC Group has an active Party Committee, organising 
regular events. On the company website, one can read that, among others: ‘All employees should follow [the old 
party members] as an example, keep their sincerity and loyalty to the Party forever’; ‘ Party organizations at all 
levels should uphold and strengthen the overall leadership of the party, give full play to the role of Party branches 
as fighting fortresses, […]’, ‘over the past 40 years, […] CITIC was actively involved in test reforms and strived to 
be positively involved in the central government’s decision-making and deployment’, ‘the Party’s banner gives the 
development direction, and we must always stick to the Party’s banner direction; The Party gives the strategic 
orientation and we must implement the national strategy without deviation.’. 
(48) 
Another example of the presence of Party Committees in the company and thus policy supervision and guidance 
is Zhongnan Wheel, a privately owned company, who informs on its website that it established a Party 
Committee in 2020 ( 20 ). The article explains the role of the Party Committee in the following way: ‘the Party 
branch should ensure that the, [company’s] development is led by Party building activities; […] As a private 
enterprise, Zhongnan (Foshan) always adheres to “the Party leads everything” principle as regards the development 
of the company’s business’. 
(49) 
Zhejiang Wanfeng Aowei Auto Wheel is another privately owned company producing aluminium wheels with a 
Party Committee. According to its website, the Party branch was established in 1994, in the same year as the 
company itself and it has more than 470 members ( 21 ). 
(50) 
In addition to party presence on the company level, the CCP is also present at the level of industry association. 
The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers has set up a Wheel Committee which has the following 
official working rules: ‘Article 3: The purpose of this committee is: to abide by the laws and regulations of the 
state, to actively publicize and implement the Party’s and the national guidelines, policies and decrees as regards 
the development of the automobile industry, to protect the overall interests of the industry and the legitimate 
rights and interests of its members, and to assist government departments and the China Association of Auto­
mobile Manufacturers in ensuring a good management of the industry’ and further in Article 4(2): ‘Actively 
participate in or assist government departments in the research, demonstration, evaluation, formulation and 
publicity of relevant standards and regulations regarding the wheel industry, and do a good job in the quality 
management and quality supervision of the industry ( 22 ).’ This is in line with the Articles of Association of China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers, which provide in Article 2: ‘The purpose of the Association is: to 
implement the national guidelines and policies; […], to serve government departments’ and in Article 3: ‘The 
Association adheres to the overall leadership of the Communist Party of China, establishes an organization of the 
Communist Party of China, develops Party activities, and provides necessary conditions for the Party organiz­
ation’s activities in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Communist Party of China ( 23 ).’ 
(51) 
Furthermore, policies discriminating in favour of domestic producers or otherwise influencing the market in the 
sense of Article 2(6a)(b), third indent of the basic Regulation are in place in the aluminium sector. 
(52) 
The aluminium sector is subject to numerous plans, guidelines, directives and other policy documents issued at 
national, regional and municipal level. Since the review investigation period falls in a transitory time between the 
validity of the 13th and 14th Five-Year Plans (‘FYPs’), both sets of documents are of interest in the current review. 
The 13th FYPs were officially in force between 2016-2020, however a large number of the 14th FYPs were only 
published in the second part of 2021 and throughout the year 2022, hence the 13th FYPs remain relevant for the 
current review.
EN 
L 18/72 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023 
( 20 ) http://www.znlwheel.com/news/detail.aspx?AID=100000131158951&NodeCode=101030001 
( 21 ) http://www.zjzzgz.gov.cn/art/2018/11/8/art_1513449_29551627.html 
( 22 ) http://www.caam.org.cn/chn/42/cate_478/con_5084242.htm 
( 23 ) CAAM Articles of Association: http://www.caam.org.cn/chn/2/cate_8/con_5223238.html

 
(53) 
Examples of policy documents guiding the development of the Chinese aluminium industry nuclide the 13th FYP 
on Economic and Social Development ( 24 ) or the Non-Ferrous Metal Industry Development Plan (2016-2020) and 
other policies at the national level. Also, a number of regional plans such as, for example, the Shandong Province 
Government’s Notice on the implementation plan for accelerating the high-quality development of the seven 
energy-intensive industries have been extensively documented by the Commission’s previous investigation of the 
sector ( 25 ). Similarly, the Commission has documented in detail that the aluminium industry benefits from 
governmental guidance and intervention concerning the main raw materials and inputs, in particular 
energy ( 26 ). The same applies to other government measures in the sector interfering with market forces, such 
as, among others, export-related policies, stockpiling policies, production capacity expansion policies or provision 
of inputs at below market prices. 
(54) 
Currently, a number of more recent policy documents concerning the aluminium industry are in force in China, 
including the 14th FYP on Developing the Raw Materials Industry ( 27 ) and the 14th FYP on the Green Devel­
opment of Industry ( 28 ) at the national level and provincial plans such as the Shandong Province 14th FYP on 
Aluminium Industry Development ( 29 ) and the Henan Implementing Measures for Capacity Replacement in Steel, 
Electrolytic Aluminium, Cement and Glass Industries 2021, at the local level. 
(55) 
The 14th FYP on Developing the Raw Materials Industry includes provisions ensuring availability of aluminium as 
raw material: ‘Implement actions to overcome shortages in key materials; […] Implement actions to consolidate 
and improve bulk basic materials and guide enterprises to use the new IT generation on the basis of optimised 
production processes so as to improve the overall competitiveness of […], high-strength aluminium alloy, […]’. 
The plan further calls for capacity control in the aluminium sector: ‘Strictly control newly increased production 
capacity. Improve and strictly implement production capacity replacement policies for […] the electrolytic 
aluminium sector, prevent the disorderly development of […] and aluminium oxide’. The plan also entails 
geographical distribution of different industries in China, under the chapter ‘Ensure guidance towards a reasonable 
layout’. The chapter reads as follows: ‘The layout of new production capacity will be improved. […] Implement 
national and regional key strategies, regional coordination development strategies, and key functional areas 
strategies, and encourage the raw materials industry to optimize and adjust its spatial layout. […] Ensure the 
orderly layout of coastal areas with projects using overseas resources such as aluminium oxide’. The plan further 
talks about the creation of industrial clusters: ‘Foster standardized industry clusters. […], foster the shift in the 
layout of the electrolytic aluminium sector from “coal – electricity – aluminium” to “clean energy, such hydro­
power, wind power – aluminium” ’. The plan lastly provides for a promotion of advanced technologies in the 
aluminium sector, promotion of the sector transformation. As can be seen from the above list, the aluminium 
sector is closely monitored and steered by the central government and the sector is to a large extent shaped by 
governmental intervention rather than by free market forces. 
(56) 
A number of industry guidance elements for the aluminium sector are also included in the 14th FYP on the Green 
Development of Industry. The plan underlines the importance of capacity control: ‘Strictly implement the capacity 
replacement policy for industries such as steel, cement, flat glass and electrolytic aluminium’. The plan 
furthermore envisages equipment and technological reforms to reduce emissions of red mud as well as 
promotion of efficient low-carbon aluminium electrolysis. As with other industry development goals set out in 
the plans, it can be expected that to carry out the necessary transformation, financing will be made available to 
the enterprises to implement the goals of the plan ( 30 ). 
(57) 
While the central level 14 th FYPs provide rather general guidance concerning the development of the aluminium 
industry, the local plans are much more detailed and specific, providing very detailed goals and targets 
encompassing every aspect of the industry’s development. The extent of China’s interference into the 
aluminium industry at the local level is evident in the local guidance documents. One such example is the
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/73 
( 24 ) The 13th Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development of the People’s Republic of China (2016-2020), available at 
https://en.ndrc.gov.cn/newsrelease_8232/201612/P020191101481868235378.pdf (last viewed 6 May 2021). 
( 25 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 147-155; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recitals 102-109. 
( 26 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/582, recitals 156-158; Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/983, recital 111. 
( 27 ) Full text of the plan available at: https://www.miit.gov.cn/zwgk/zcwj/wjfb/tz/art/2021/art_2960538d19e34c66a5eb8d01b74cbb20. 
html 
( 28 ) https://www.miit.gov.cn/zwgk/zcwj/wjfb/tz/art/2021/art_4ac49eddca6f43d68ed17465109b6001.html 
( 29 ) http://gxt.shandong.gov.cn/art/2021/11/18/art_15681_10296248.html https://h5.drcnet.com.cn/docview.aspx?version=integrated 
( 30 ) See Report, chapter 6.

 
Shandong Province 14th FYP on Aluminium Industry Development. The plan starts by listing the achievements in 
developing the aluminium industry during the 13 th FYP, including construction of leading aluminium enterprises: 
‘A constellation of aluminium-processing backbone enterprises has been formed, including Shandong Weiqiao 
Pioneering Group Co. Ltd (“Weiqiao”), Shandong Xin Fa Group Co. Ltd. (“Xinfa”), Shandong Nanshan Aluminium 
Co. Ltd. (“Nanshan”), Shandong Innovation Metal Co. Ltd. (“Chuangxin”), Longkou Conglin Aluminium Material 
Co. Ltd. (“Conglin”), Huajian Aluminium Industry (“Huajian”) and Shandong Sanxing Group (“Sanxing”).’ Further, 
the plan sets out general goals for the local aluminium industry development, including: ‘[…]give full play to the 
economy of scale of the aluminium industry in the province and focus on the coherence of the aluminium deep- 
processing industry, effectively enhance the industry’s innovation capacity, deeply promote the extension of 
industry chains, to strive to have a reasonable structure for the aluminium industry emerge, optimise the 
layout and improve quality and efficiency and speed up the shaping of Shandong as a world-class, high-end 
aluminium industrial base.’ 
(58) 
The plan of the Shandong Province further lists some very specific targets, for example: ‘By 2025, the aluminium 
industry will reach CNY 800 billion, the end-products’ market size will continue to expand, with high value-added 
products accounting for over 60 %, and the ratio of aluminium material production volume/electrolytic 
aluminium production volume will be higher than the national average, reaching 2.5:1. The province will 
evolve into a major aluminium industrial cluster with significant domestic and overseas influence.’ And 
further: ‘By 2025, the production capacity of electrolytic aluminium and aluminium oxide will be controlled, 
the electrolysers will reach the high-level production capacity level of 400 kA and beyond, and the energy 
consumption (direct current) per tonne of aluminium for electrolytic aluminium will be reduced to about 
12 500 kWh’. 
(59) 
The Shandong Plan also involves some very specific geographical prescriptions as to the location of the 
aluminium plants. The Plan envisages strengthening of specific areas: ‘the three core areas: Binzhou, Liaocheng 
and Yantai, and the two functional areas: Weifang and Linyi.’ For each of those areas, the plan is very specific as 
to the production facilities and materials to be manufactured in each location. As an example illustrating the level 
of detail of the Plan, for the Binzhou location it envisaged the following: ‘Build the core area of Binzhou, 
characterized by the presence of the entire industry chain, and shape the city industry layout with the 
Zouping, and Binzhou Economic and Technological Development Zones around the Beihai Economic Devel­
opment Zone; Involve leading and backbone enterprises so as to further expand the advantages of production 
scale and the comprehensive industrial chain, focus on the development of five main areas, such as lightweight 
and high-strength aluminium alloys, aluminium sheets and foils, 3C electronics, automotive light-weighting, and 
aluminium home furnishing; Ensure breakthroughs in the development of mid- to high-end products such as 
pistons, car wheels and hubs, automotive plates, and high-performance aluminium-alloy forgings for automotive 
chassis; and to replace steel, wood, plastic and other end-products by aluminium. With the support of scientific 
and technological research and development platforms such as Weiqiao Guoke Binzhou Science and Technology 
Park, breakthroughs will be made in the areas of high-purity aluminium, aluminium-based composite materials, 
special-sized component preparation technologies and aluminium-alloy welding technologies; Speed up the 
construction of the Shandong Aluminium Valley public-service platform and to unleash the supporting and 
driving forces of public services, commodity trading, finance, logistics and technological innovation, in order 
to create a “China Aluminium Valley” ’. (emphasis added) 
(60) 
In addition, the Shandong Plan identifies 4 areas in the aluminium industry which need to be developed/ 
strengthened: aluminium smelting, aluminium alloys, aluminium-based composites, aluminium processing and 
deep-processing. For each of those aluminium processing types, the plan sets out concrete goals and objectives to 
be achieved in the next 5 years. Furthermore, the Shandong Plan envisages that the local municipalities elaborate 
their own Five Year Plans to ensure coordination in industry development on all levels: ‘Municipalities should 
build on this plan to develop regional aluminium sectoral plans and to achieve a synergistic development of the 
industry’. 
(61) 
Finally, the Shandong Plan sets out (financial) support measures for the local aluminium enterprises: ‘Stepping up 
policy and regulatory support. To actively implement various national and provincial-level supporting policies, 
and provide reinforcement to qualified industrial clusters, key products, and key technologies and support 
enterprises in undertaking major national and provincial projects. Flexibly using new and old forms of energy 
to transform major engineering packages and support the development of “pioneering” enterprises, including
EN 
L 18/74 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023

 
fiscal incentives, land supply, green energy allocation, tax cuts, and technological innovations, and to implement 
tax incentives for aluminium recycling. To encourage provincial-level equity investment funds to foster research 
and development and the industrialisation of new, priority products, attracting and leveraging greater investment 
in social capital.’ 
(62) 
It is obvious from the above examples, that the extent of governmental involvement goes well beyond the general 
support of a country’s industry. It constitutes strict control and governmental management of every single aspect 
concerning the industry on every level – from national, through provincial to municipal. In addition to the above, 
the aluminium wheels producers are also beneficiaries of state subsidies, which clearly indicates the interest of the 
state in this sector. During the investigation, the Commission established that a number of aluminium wheels 
producers benefited from direct state subsidies, including Zhejiang Wanfeng Aowei Auto Wheel ( 31 ) and 
Dongfeng Motors ( 32 ). 
(63) 
In sum, the GOC has measures in place to induce operators to comply with the public policy objectives of 
supporting encouraged industries, including the production of the main inputs used in the manufacturing of the 
product under review. Such measures impede market forces from operating freely. 
(64) 
The present investigation has not revealed any evidence that the discriminatory application or inadequate 
enforcement of bankruptcy and property laws according to Article 2(6a)(b), fourth indent of the basic Regulation 
in the aluminium sector referred to above in recital 42 would not affect the manufacturers of the product under 
review. 
(65) 
The aluminium sector is also affected by the distortions of wage costs in the sense of Article 2(6a)(b), fifth indent 
of the basic Regulation, as also referred to above in recital 42. Those distortion affect the sector both directly 
(when producing the product under review or the main inputs), as well as indirectly (when having access to 
capital or inputs from companies subject to the same labour system in the PRC). 
(66) 
Moreover, no evidence was submitted in the present investigation demonstrating that the aluminium sector is not 
affected by the government intervention in the financial system in the sense of Article 2(6a)(b), sixth indent of the 
basic Regulation, as also referred to above in recital 42. Therefore, the substantial government intervention in the 
financial system leads to the market conditions being severely affected at all levels. 
(67) 
Finally, the Commission recalls that in order to produce the product under review, a number of inputs is needed. 
When the producers of the product under review purchase or contract for these inputs, the prices paid (and 
which are recorded as their costs) are exposed to the same systemic distortions mentioned before. For instance, 
suppliers of inputs employ labour that is subject to the distortions; they may borrow money that is subject to the 
distortions on the financial sector/capital allocation; and they are subject to the planning system that applies 
across all levels of government and sectors. 
(68) 
As a consequence, not only the domestic sales prices of the product under review are not appropriate for use 
within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, but all the input costs (including raw materials, 
energy, land, financing, labour, etc.) are also affected because their price formation is affected by substantial 
government intervention, as described in Parts I and II of the Report. Indeed, the government interventions 
described in relation to the allocation of capital, land, labour, energy and raw materials are present throughout 
the PRC. This means, for instance, that an input that in itself was produced in the PRC by combining a range of 
factors of production is exposed to significant distortions. The same applies for the input to the input and so 
forth. 
(69) 
No evidence or argument to the contrary has been adduced by any of the interested parties. 
(70) 
In sum, the evidence available showed that prices or costs of the product under review, including the costs of raw 
materials, energy and labour, are not the result of free market forces because they are affected by substantial 
government intervention within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation as shown by the actual or 
potential impact of one or more of the relevant elements listed therein. On that basis, and in the absence of any 
cooperation from the GOC, the Commission concluded that it is not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs 
to establish normal value in this case. Consequently, the Commission proceeded to construct the normal value 
exclusively on the basis of costs of production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks, that is, in this 
case, on the basis of corresponding costs of production and sale in an appropriate representative country, in 
accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, as discussed in the following section.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/75 
( 31 ) See 2021 Zhejiang Wanfeng Aowei Auto Wheel Annual Report, p. 192 http://www.wfaw.com.cn/gongsigonggao/download-265. 
html 
( 32 ) See Dongfeng Motors 2021 Annual Report, p. 153: http://file.finance.sina.com.cn/211.154.219.97:9494/MRGG/CNSESH_STOCK/ 
2022/2022-3/2022-03-31/7941734.PDF

 
3.3.2. Representative country 
3.3.2.1. General remarks 
(71) 
The choice of the representative country should be based on the following criteria pursuant to Article 2(6a) of the 
basic Regulation: 
— A level of economic development similar to PRC. For this purpose, the Commission used countries with a 
gross national income per capita similar to PRC on the basis of the database of the World Bank ( 33 ); 
— Production of the product under review in that country ( 34 ); 
— Availability of relevant public data in the representative country. 
— Where there is more than one possible representative country, preference should be given, where appropriate, 
to the country with an adequate level of social and environmental protection. 
(72) 
As explained in recital 37, the Commission issued a Note on the sources for the determination of the normal 
value on 12 May 2022. This note described the facts and evidence underlying the relevant criteria, informed 
interested parties of the Commission’s intention to consider Brazil as an appropriate representative country in the 
present case if the existence of significant distortions pursuant to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation would be 
confirmed. 
(73) 
In line with the criteria listed under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission identified Brazil as a 
country with a similar level of economic development as the PRC. Brazil is classified by the World Bank as 
‘upper-middle income’ country on a gross national income basis. Furthermore, Brazil was identified as a country 
where the product under review is being produced with relevant data was readily available. 
(74) 
Finally, given the absence of cooperation and having established that Brazil was an appropriate representative 
country, based on all of the above elements, there was no need to carry out an assessment of the level of social 
and environmental protection in accordance with the last sentence of Article 2(6a)(a) first indent of the basic 
Regulation. 
3.3.2.2. Conclusion 
(75) 
In the absence of cooperation, as proposed in the expiry review request and given that Brazil met the criteria laid 
down in Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic Regulation, the Commission selected Brazil as the appropriate 
representative country. 
3.3.3. Sources used to establish undistorted costs 
(76) 
In the note on relevant sources to use for the determination of the normal value, the Commission listed the 
factors of production such as materials, energy and labour used in the production of the product under review by 
the exporting producers. The Commission also stated that, in order to construct the normal value in accordance 
with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, it would use Global Trade Atlas (‘GTA’) to establish the undistorted 
cost of most of the factors of production, notably the raw materials. In addition, the Commission stated that it 
would use information from: the Brazilian statistical institute for establishing undistorted costs of labour, public 
tariffs from electricity suppliers in Brazil and available database for natural gas. 
(77) 
Finally, the Commission stated that to establish SG&A costs and profit, it would use the financial data from the 
two Brazilian producers of the product under review, as set out in recital 37 above. 
(78) 
The Commission included a value for manufacturing overhead costs in order to cover costs not included in the 
factors of production referred to above. The Commission established the ratio of manufacturing overheads to the 
direct costs of manufacturing, based on data of Union producers provided by the applicant, which provided 
specific information for that purpose.
EN 
L 18/76 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023 
( 33 ) World Bank Open Data – Upper Middle Income, https://data.worldbank.org/income-level/upper-middle-income. 
( 34 ) If there is no production of the product under review in any country with a similar level of development, production of a product 
in the same general category and/or sector of the product under review may be considered.

 
3.4. 
Undistorted costs and benchmarks 
3.4.1. Factors of production 
(79) 
Considering all the information based on the request and subsequent information collected during the proceeding, 
the following factors of production and their sources have been identified in order to determine the normal value 
in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation: 
Table 1 
Factors of production of certain aluminium road wheels 
Factor of Production 
Commodity Code 
Value (RMB) 
Unit of measurement 
Raw materials 
Aluminium ingots 
760120 
14,56 
kg 
Paint 
320810 
320820 
320890 
48,69 
kg 
All other raw materials; additives; packaging 
N/A 
4,48 % of raw 
materials 
N/A 
Labour 
Labour Cost in the manufacturing industries 
(NACE C.25) 
N/A 
28,44 
hour 
Energy 
Electricity 
N/A 
0,432 
kWh 
Natural Gas 
N/A 
0,357 
kWh 
Water 
Water 
N/A 
12,87 
M3 
3.4.1.1. Raw materials 
(80) 
In order to establish the undistorted price of raw materials as delivered at the gate of a representative country 
producer, the Commission used as a basis the weighted average import price to the representative country as 
reported in the GTA to which import duties were added. An import price in the representative country was 
determined as a weighted average of unit prices of imports from all third countries excluding the PRC and 
countries which are not members of the WTO, listed in Annex 1 of Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the European 
Parliament and the Council ( 35 ). 
(81) 
The Commission decided to exclude imports from the PRC into the representative country as it concluded in 
section [3.3.1] that it is not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs in the PRC due to the existence of 
significant distortions in accordance with Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation. Given that there is no evidence 
showing that the same distortions do not equally affect products intended for export, the Commission considered 
that the same distortions affected export prices. After excluding imports from the PRC into the representative 
country, the volume of imports from other third countries remained representative.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/77 
( 35 ) Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on common rules for imports from 
certain third countries (OJ L 123, 19.5.2015, p. 33). Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation considers that domestic prices in those 
countries cannot be used for the purpose of determining normal value and, in any event, such import data was negligible.

 
(82) 
For a number of factors of production the actual costs incurred by the cooperating exporting producers repre­
sented a negligible share of total raw material costs in the review investigation period. As the value used for these 
had no appreciable impact on the dumping margin calculations, regardless of the source used, the Commission 
decided to include those costs into all other raw materials. In order to establish an undistorted value of all other 
raw materials and given the absence of cooperation from the exporting producers, the Commission used facts 
available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. Therefore, based on the data of provided by the 
applicant, the Commission established the ratio of all other raw materials to the total raw material costs, 4,48 %. 
This percentage was then applied to the undistorted value of the raw materials to obtain the undistorted value of 
other raw materials. 
(83) 
Normally, domestic transport prices should also be added to these import prices. However, considering the 
absence of cooperation as well as the nature of this expiry review investigation, which is focused on finding 
whether dumping continued during the review investigation period or could reoccur, rather than finding its exact 
magnitude, the Commission decided that adjustments for domestic transport were unnecessary. Such adjustments 
would only result in increasing the normal value and hence the dumping margin. 
3.4.1.2. Labour 
(84) 
To establish the benchmark for labour costs in the representative country, the Commission used available data 
published by the Brazilian government agency ‘Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística’ (IBGE). IBGE ( 36 ) 
publishes detailed information on wages in different economic sectors in Brazil. The Commission used the 
available statistics for 2020 for average labour cost in the Metallurgy, steel and manufacturing industries 
(Category 25 according to the NACE 2.0). 
3.4.1.3. Electricity 
(85) 
To establish the benchmark for electricity in the representative country, the Commission used the latest available 
data on electricity industrial prices as charged by one of the largest electricity suppliers in Brazil, the company 
EDP Brazil. The Commission used the data on the industrial electricity prices ( 37 ) in the corresponding 
consumption band in Brazilian Real/kWh covering the review investigation period. 
3.4.1.4. Natural gas 
(86) 
The price of natural gas for companies (industrial users) in Brazil is collected and published by the database 
Global Petrol Prices in its website ( 38 ). The Commission used the corresponding pricing from the publication 
covering the review investigation period. 
3.4.1.5. Water 
(87) 
To establish the benchmark for the cost of water in the representative country, the Commission used the 
applicable prices in Brazil as charged by the company Sabesp ( 39 ) that is responsible for water supply, sewage 
collection and treatment in the State of Sao Paulo. 
3.4.1.6. Manufacturing overhead costs, SG&A, profits and depreciation 
(88) 
According to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, ‘the constructed normal value shall include an undistorted 
and reasonable amount for administrative, selling and general costs and for profits’. In addition, a value for 
manufacturing overhead costs needs to be established to cover costs not included in the factors of production 
referred to above. 
(89) 
In order to establish an undistorted value of the manufacturing overheads and given the absence of cooperation 
from the exporting producers, the Commission used facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic 
Regulation. Therefore, based on the data of provided by the applicant, the Commission established the ratio of 
manufacturing overheads to the total manufacturing and labour costs. This percentage was then applied to the 
undistorted value of the cost of manufacturing to obtain the undistorted value of manufacturing overheads, 
depending on the model produced.
EN 
L 18/78 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023 
( 36 ) https://www.ibge.gov.br/en/statistics/economic/industry-and-construction/16906-pia-enterprise-pia1.html?=&t=o-que-e 
( 37 ) http://www.edp.com.br/distribuicao-es/saiba-mais/informativos/tarifas-aplicadas-a-clientes-atendidos-em-alta-e-media-tensao- 
(grupo-a) 
( 38 ) https://www.globalpetrolprices.com/Brazil/ 
( 39 ) http://site.sabesp.com.br/site/interna/Default.aspx?secaoId=183

 
(90) 
For establishing an undistorted and reasonable amount for SG&A and profit, the Commission relied on the most 
recent available financial data companies in Brazil that had been identified in the FoP Note as active and profitable 
producers of certain aluminium road wheels. Financial data for the following companies as extracted from Orbis 
Bureau van Dijk was used: 
— IOCHPE MAXION S.A (Financial year 2019), 
— NEO RODAS S.A (Financial year 2019) 
3.4.2. Calculation of the normal value 
(91) 
On the basis of the above, the Commission constructed the normal value per product type on an ex-works basis 
in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. 
(92) 
First, the Commission established the undistorted manufacturing costs. In the absence of cooperation by the 
exporting producers, the Commission relied on the information provided by the applicant in the review request 
on the usage of each factor (materials and labour) for the production of the product under review. 
(93) 
Once the undistorted manufacturing cost established, the Commission added the manufacturing overheads, SG&A 
and profit as noted in recitals 88 to 90. Manufacturing overheads were determined based on data provided by the 
applicant. SG&A and profit were determined based on the average of the values reported in the financial 
statements of the two companies in the representative country. The Commission added the following units to 
the undistorted costs of manufacturing: 
— Manufacturing overheads, which accounted in total for 26,80 % of the direct costs of manufacturing, 
— SG&A and other costs, which accounted for 13,75 % of the Costs of Goods Sold (‘COGS’), and 
— Profits, which amounted to 6,24 % of the COGS, were applied to the total undistorted costs of manufacturing. 
(94) 
On that basis, the Commission constructed the normal value per product type on an ex-works basis in 
accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. 
3.5. 
Export price 
(95) 
In the absence of cooperation by exporting producers from China, the export price was determined based on CIF 
prices extracted from Eurostat data, corrected to ex-works level. Thus, the CIF price was reduced by the sea freight 
and insurance cost and domestic transport cost. Domestic Chinese and international transport costs were based 
on information provided by the applicants in the request for review. 
3.6. 
Comparison 
(96) 
The Commission compared, the normal value established in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regu­
lation and the export price on an ex-works basis as established above. 
3.7. 
Dumping margin 
(97) 
On this basis, dumping margins were found to be significant (over 10 %). It was therefore concluded that 
dumping continued during the review investigation period. 
4. LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OF DUMPING 
(98) 
Further to the finding of the existence of dumping during the review investigation period, the Commission 
investigated, in accordance with Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation, the likelihood of continuation of 
dumping, should the measures be repealed. The following additional elements were analysed: the production 
capacity and spare capacity in China, relation between export prices to third countries and the price level in the 
Union, the attractiveness of the Union market. It is recalled that due to the non-cooperation from the Chinese 
exporting producers as well as the GOC, the analysis was based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 
of the basic Regulation, in particular the request for review, GTA statistics and available information.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/79

 
4.1. 
Production capacity and spare capacity in the PRC 
(99) 
To analyse production capacity and spare capacity in the PRC and given the non-cooperation of the GOC and the 
Chinese exporting producers, the Commission relied on the information provided by the applicant in its request 
for review as specified the recitals below. 
(100) The investigation has shown that there is a general overcapacity in the production of certain aluminium road 
wheels in China. The production capacity ( 40 ) for 2020 in China was estimated to be of 189,8 million wheels. 
According to the applicant’s market intelligence, Chinese sales amounted to 153 million wheels, of which 
108 million were consumed domestically and around 45 million were exported. Therefore, the spare capacity 
is estimated to be more than 36 million wheels (or more than half of the Union consumption during the review 
investigation period), which could be diverted to the Union if the current measures would cease to apply. 
(101) Based on the above, the Commission concluded that the Chinese exporting producers have significant spare 
capacities, which could be used for exports to the Union if the measures were allowed to lapse. 
4.2. 
Attractiveness of the Union market 
(102) The Union market for certain aluminium road wheels is among the largest in the world, driven by the extensive 
production of the automotive industry in the Union, which already attracts significant amount of imports from 
China. Furthermore, other important markets such as USA and India have imposed trade remedies on imports of 
aluminium road wheels from China. It is therefore considered that the imposition of trade measures in other main 
markets would likely lead to a further increase in the EU import volumes from China, should the current 
measures be lifted. 
(103) Even with the measures in place, Chinese exports to the Union continued showing that even with measures the 
Union market remains attractive to Chinese exporting producers. The Commission analysed the price level of 
Chinese exports to other third markets on the basis of GTA data. Weighted average Chinese export prices to third 
countries, at a level of EUR 43,94, were significantly lower than the Union industry prices (around 13 %). 
Consequently, it is likely that, should the measures be allowed to lapse, the Union market would become 
even more attractive for Chinese exporters and without duties, the Chinese exporters could increase their 
exports to the Union. 
(104) An additional attractive element of the Union market is that the exact design of certain wheels used in the Union 
are also produced in China. 
(105) Therefore, based on the significant overcapacity in the PRC and the attractiveness of the Union market, the 
Commission concluded that, should the current measures lapse, it is likely that the Chinese exporting producers 
would redirect exports towards the Union at dumped prices. 
4.3. 
Conclusion on the likelihood of continuation of dumping 
(106) In view of its findings on the continuation of dumping during the review investigation period and on the likely 
development of exports should the measures lapse, the Commission concluded that there is a strong likelihood 
that the expiry of the anti-dumping measures on imports from the PRC would result in the continuation of 
dumping. 
5. INJURY 
5.1. 
Definition of the Union industry and Union production 
(107) The like product was manufactured by around thirty producers in the Union during the review investigation 
period. They constitute the ‘Union industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. 
(108) The total Union production during the review investigation period was estimated at around 64,3 million items. 
The Commission established the figure on the basis of all the available information concerning the Union 
industry, such as the reply to the macroeconomic questionnaire provided by the complainant. As indicated in 
recital 12, the sampled Union producers represented almost 20 % of the total production quantity of the known 
Union producers of the like product.
EN 
L 18/80 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023 
( 40 ) Annex D.1 of the Request for review.

 
5.2. 
Union consumption 
(109) The Commission established the Union consumption on the basis of the total Union industry’s sales in the Union, 
plus total imports from third countries to the Union. Sales of the Union industry on the Union market were 
obtained from the complaint and adjusted on the basis of data provided in the replies of the sampled Union 
producers for the review investigation period. For imports, the Commission relied on Eurostat Comext database. 
However, as Eurostat Comext database provides only the weight of the imports and not the number of ARW 
items imported, it was necessary to convert the weight into items. In the complaint, the complainant applied the 
conversion ratio used in the last investigation on the same product ( 41 ) (i.e. 10,9 kg per item). The validity of this 
conversion ratio was verified based on the questionnaires replies of the Moroccan and the sampled Union 
producers as mentioned in the recital 78 of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/1221 ( 42 ) 
imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain aluminium road wheels originating in 
Morocco (‘ARW Morocco investigation’). The investigation revealed that the weighted average weight per item 
currently applicable was 11,3 kg per item as the market trend is going towards larger wheel diameter resulting in 
an increase of the weight per wheel. Therefore, this ratio was used when establishing the Union consumption per 
item. 
(110) On this basis, Union consumption developed as follows: 
Table 2 
Union consumption (items) 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Total consumption (in 000 items) 
77 873 
73 797 
59 530 
64 311 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
95 
76 
83 
Source: Eurostat Comext database, EUWA and the verified questionnaire replies. 
(111) The Union consumption decreased by 5 % between 2018 and 2019, by 19 % between 2019 and 2020. In 2020, 
the car industry production went down by around 4,2 million vehicles due to the COVID-19 pandemic and thus 
with a direct impact on upstream suppliers as the sales of the ARW decreased by 14 million in 2020 compared 
with 2019. The drop in production was particularly significant in the 2 nd quarter of 2020 but the market 
rebounded in the following months. The market recovered by 5 million wheels: from 59 million in 2020 to 
64 million wheels during the review investigation period. The consumption did, however, not reach the level of 
2019 due to the shortage of semi-conductors used by the car manufacturers. 
5.3. 
Imports from the PRC 
5.3.1. Quantity and market share of the imports from the PRC 
(112) The Commission established the quantity of imports on the basis of the Eurostat Comext database. The market 
share of the imports was established on the basis of the share these imports represented of the total Union 
consumption as set out in recital 109. 
(113) Imports into the Union from the PRC developed as follows: 
Table 3 
Import quantity (items) and market share 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Quantity of imports from the 
PRC (in 000 items) 
3 734 
3 493 
2 230 
2 205 
Index (2019 = 100) 
100 
94 
60 
59
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/81 
( 41 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/109. 
( 42 ) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/1221 of 14 July 2022 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of 
certain aluminium road wheels originating in Morocco (OJ L 188, 15.7.2022, p. 114).

 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Market share (%) 
4,8 
4,7 
3,7 
3,4 
Index (2019 = 100) 
100 
98 
77 
71 
Source: Eurostat Comext database. 
(114) Imports of the product under review from the PRC decreased over the period considered. The market share of the 
imports from the PRC remained stable in 2018-2019 and dropped by 29 % in the review investigation period. 
This development should however be seen as a consequence of the establishment in Morocco of one of the main 
Chinese producers. 
5.3.2. Prices of the imports from the PRC 
(115) The weighted average price of imports into the Union from the PRC developed as follows: 
Table 4 
Average import prices from the PRC 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
In EUR/item 
50,1 
50,3 
49,3 
53,9 
Index (2019 = 100) 
100 
100 
98 
108 
Source: Eurostat Comext Database. 
(116) The average import price from the PRC increased by around 4 EUR per item between 2018 and the review 
investigation period. However, part of the selling price is indexed to the aluminium price on the London Metal 
Exchange (‘LME’). In view of the non-cooperation of the Chinese exporting producers, the Commission compared 
the weighted average sales price of the Union producers charged to unrelated customers on the Union market, 
adjusted to an ex-works level, with the weighted average import price of the product under review from the PRC 
from Eurostat, established on a CIF basis. 
(117) The result of the comparison showed that average sales price of the Union industry was lower than the import 
price from China thus established. 
5.3.3. Imports from third countries other than the PRC 
(118) The quantity of imports from other third countries developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 5 
Imports from third countries other than the PRC 
Country 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review 
investigation 
period 
Turkey 
Quantity (in 000 items) 
7 983 
7 632 
7 010 
8 364 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
96 
88 
105 
Market share (%) 
10,3 
10,3 
11,8 
13,0 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
101 
115 
126 
Average price (EUR/unit) 
53,6 
51,9 
49,7 
51,1 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
97 
93 
95
EN 
L 18/82 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023

 
Country 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review 
investigation 
period 
Morocco 
Quantity (in 000 items) 
0 
15,7 
1 038 
2 516 
Index (2018 = 100) 
— 
100 
6 611 
16 025 
Market share (%) 
— 
0,0 
1,7 
3,9 
Index (2018 = 100) 
— 
100 
8 196 
18 389 
Average price (EUR/item) 
— 
39,2 
42,6 
44,7 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
109 
114 
Thailand 
Quantity (in 000 items) 
2 228 
1 911 
1 527 
1 487 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
86 
69 
67 
Market share (%) 
2,9 
2,6 
2,6 
2,3 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
90 
90 
79 
Average price (EUR/item) 
52,3 
50,8 
49,0 
50,3 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
97 
94 
96 
South Korea 
Quantity (in 000 items) 
1 813 
1 577 
1 460 
1 065 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
87 
81 
59 
Market share (%) 
2,3 
2,1 
2,5 
1,7 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
91 
109 
74 
Average price (EUR/item) 
52,2 
52,9 
50,9 
53,5 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
101 
97 
102
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/83

 
Country 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review 
investigation 
period 
Other 
third 
countries 
Quantity (in 000 items) 
4 612 
3 663 
3 151 
3 279 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
79 
68 
71 
Market share (%) 
5,9 
5,0 
5,3 
5,1 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
85 
90 
86 
Average price (EUR/item) 
69,1 
74,9 
71,1 
75,9 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
108 
103 
110 
Total 
of 
all 
third countries 
except the PRC 
Quantity (in 000 items) 
16 638 
14 801 
14 189 
16 713 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
89 
85 
100 
Market share (%) 
21,4 
20,1 
23,8 
26,0 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
94 
112 
121 
Average price (EUR/item) 
57,5 
57,5 
54,0 
55,1 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
100 
94 
96 
Source: Eurostat Comext database. 
(119) Import quantities from other third countries held a market share of 21,4 % in 2018 and 26,0 % in the review 
investigation period. The quantity of these imports decreased in 2019 and 2020, but returned to 2018 levels 
during the review investigation period, resulting in an increase in their market share by 21 % between 2018 and 
the review investigation period. The average import price of these imports decreased by 4 % and was higher 
compared to the Union industry’s average price (+ 8,9 %) and higher compared with the average import price 
from the country concerned (+ 2,2 %). Two countries increased their market share in the period considered: 
Turkey and Morocco. Turkish average prices were slightly higher compared to the Union industry’s (by 1,0 %) and 
much higher than the average price of imports from Morocco (by 14 %). 
5.4. 
Economic situation of the Union industry 
5.4.1. General remarks 
(120) The assessment of the economic situation of the Union industry included an evaluation of all economic indicators 
having a bearing on the state of the Union industry during the period considered. 
(121) As mentioned in recital 12, sampling was used for the assessment of the economic situation of the Union 
industry. 
(122) For the injury determination, the Commission distinguished between macroeconomic and microeconomic injury 
indicators. The Commission evaluated the macroeconomic indicators on the basis of data contained in the replies 
to the anti-dumping questionnaire by the sampled producers as well as macroeconomic data provided by the 
non-sampled producers and the Union producers’ association, crosschecked with the data in the review request. 
The data related to all Union producers. The Commission evaluated the microeconomic indicators on the basis of 
data contained in the questionnaire replies from the sampled Union producers. The data related to the sampled 
Union producers. Both sets of data were found to be representative of the economic situation of the Union 
industry.
EN 
L 18/84 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023

 
(123) The macroeconomic indicators are: production, production capacity, capacity utilisation, sales volume, market 
share, growth, employment, productivity, magnitude of the dumping margin, and recovery from past dumping. 
(124) The microeconomic indicators are: average item prices, item cost, labour costs, inventories, profitability, cash 
flow, investments, return on investments, and ability to raise capital. 
5.4.2. Macroeconomic indicators 
5.4.2.1. Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
(125) The total Union production, production capacity and capacity utilisation developed over the period considered as 
follows: 
Table 6 
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Production 
quantity 
(in 
000 
items) 
59 182 
57 097 
44 718 
48 752 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
96 
76 
82 
Production 
capacity 
(in 
000 
items) 
62 614 
62 475 
61 619 
61 294 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
100 
98 
98 
Capacity utilisation (%) 
95 
91 
73 
80 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
97 
77 
84 
Source: EUWA and sampled Union producers. 
(126) Overall, the production quantity of Union industry decreased by 18 % during the period considered. It slightly 
decreased by 4 % between 2018 and 2019. With the COVID-19 pandemic, the production decreased by 
12,3 million items in 2020 and rebounded in the review investigation period by 4 million items. 
(127) While the production capacity of the Union industry decreased by 2 %, the capacity utilisation followed the same 
negative trend as production and decreased by 15 % during the period considered. 
5.4.2.2. Sales quantity and market share 
(128) The Union industry’s sales quantity and market share developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 7 
Sales quantity and market share 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Sales quantity on the Union 
market (in 000 items) 
57 501 
55 502 
43 110 
45 391 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
97 
75 
79
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/85

 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Market share (%) 
73,8 
75,2 
72,4 
70,6 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
102 
98 
96 
Source: EUWA and sampled Union producers. 
(129) The sales quantity of the Union industry on the Union market decreased by 21 % during the period considered. It 
decreased by 3 % between 2018 and 2019 and then dropped by 12,4 million items in 2020. During the review 
investigation period, the sales recovered by 2,2 million items. 
(130) The market share of the Union industry slightly increased between 2018 and 2019, while it declined in 2020 and 
further in the review investigation period. 
5.4.2.3. Employment and productivity 
(131) Employment and productivity developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 8 
Employment and productivity 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Number of employees 
17 816 
17 866 
16 963 
16 790 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
100 
95 
94 
Productivity (item/employee) 
3 322 
3 196 
2 636 
2 904 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
96 
79 
87 
Source: EUWA and the sampled Union producers. 
(132) While the number of employees decreased by 6 % during the period considered, productivity decreased by 13 %. 
The decline in productivity was mainly due to the decrease in the production quantity over the period considered 
and resulted in increased labour costs per item of ARW produced. 
5.4.2.4. Growth 
(133) As explained in Sections 5.4.2.1 to 5.4.2.3 above, the production quantity and the capacity utilisation of the 
Union industry decreased by 18 % and 16 %, respectively during the period considered, which resulted in higher 
fixed costs per item of production and in lower productivity. Total costs of the industry increased by 
1,7 EUR/item (+ 3,4 %) over the period considered. However, the average selling price of the Union industry 
decreased by 3,3 EUR/item (– 6,1 %). 
(134) Furthermore, the sales quantity on the Union market dropped by 21 % and the market share by 5 %, between 
2018 and the review investigation period. Thus, the Union industry experienced a deterioration of its financial 
performance. As explained in Section 4.4.3.1 below, it faced higher cost of production while being unable to 
adjust its sales prices accordingly. 
(135) Therefore, the growth perspectives of the Union industry have been jeopardised. 
5.4.2.5. Magnitude of the dumping margin and recovery from past dumping 
(136) During the review investigation period, the dumping continued and was significantly above the de minimis level. 
The impact of the magnitude of the actual margins of dumping on the Union industry was substantial, given the 
quantity and prices of imports from the country concerned.
EN 
L 18/86 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023

 
(137) In the previous expiry review the Commission concluded that the Union industry no longer suffered material 
injury and thus it had recovered from the past dumping. In addition, the Commission provisionally found in the 
on-going investigation regarding imports from Morocco ( 43 ) that, during the review investigation period, the 
Union industry suffered material injury caused by the imports from Morocco to which imports from China 
did not contribute. 
(138) Consequently, the Commission confirmed that the Union industry had recovered from the past dumping by 
imports from China before the dumped imports from Morocco started to enter the Union market in increasing 
volumes as from 2019. 
5.4.3. Microeconomic indicators 
5.4.3.1. Prices and factors affecting prices 
(139) The weighted average sales prices per item of the sampled Union producers to unrelated customers in the Union 
developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 9 
Sales prices in the Union 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Average sales price per item in 
the Union market (EUR/item) 
53,9 
52,3 
49,3 
50,6 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
97 
92 
94 
Cost of production per item 
(EUR/item) 
49,9 
48,2 
49,3 
51,6 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
97 
99 
104 
Source: Sampled Union producers. 
(140) The average Union industry’s sales prices decreased by 6 % during the period considered although the average 
cost of production increased by 4 % between 2018 and the review investigation period. The Union industry was 
not able to increase its sales prices to cover the increased cost of production. 
5.4.3.2. Labour costs 
(141) The average labour costs of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 10 
Average labour costs per employee 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Average 
labour 
costs 
per 
employee (EUR) 
35 216 
35 700 
33 084 
35 951 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
101 
94 
102 
Source: Sampled Union producers. 
(142) The average labour cost per employee of the Union industry slightly increased by 2 % during the period 
considered with a small increase in 2019 and a decrease by 6 % in 2020, mainly because of production 
shutdowns due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/87 
( 43 ) Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/1221, recital 154.

 
5.4.3.3. Inventories 
(143) Stock levels of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 11 
Inventories 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Closing stocks (in 000 items) 
556 
439 
492 
776 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
79 
88 
140 
Closing stocks as a percentage of 
production (%) 
0,9 
0,8 
1,1 
1,6 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
89 
122 
177 
Source: Sampled Union producers. 
(144) Inventories increased by 40 % over the period considered. They decreased by 21 % in 2019, by 12 % in 2020 and 
rebounded during the review investigation period by + 57 %. The ARW industry in the Union is characterised by 
multi-years framework contracts between producers and customers that fix the quantities and prices. These 
framework contracts are implemented through purchasing orders, according to customer’s needs. As a result, 
the Union industry can plan its production and inventories. Therefore, inventories are not a main indicator for 
the assessment of the Union industry’s performance. 
5.4.3.4. Profitability, cash flow, investments, return on investments and ability to raise capital 
(145) Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments of the sampled Union producers developed over 
the period considered as follows: 
Table 12 
Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments 
2018 
2019 
2020 
Review investigation 
period 
Profitability of sales in the Union 
to unrelated customers (% of 
sales turnover) 
7,5 
8,2 
0,4 
– 1,6 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
109 
5 
– 21 
Cash flow (in 000 EUR) 
81 153 
82 495 
31 805 
22 956 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
102 
39 
28 
Investments (in 000 EUR) 
37 788 
30 757 
19 848 
21 845 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
81 
53 
58 
Return on investments 
12,0 
9,1 
0,3 
– 0,5 
Index (2018 = 100) 
100 
76 
3 
– 4 
Source: Sampled Union producers.
EN 
L 18/88 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023

 
(146) The Commission established the profitability of the sampled Union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit 
of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the Union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. 
(147) The profitability of the Union industry increased between 2018-2019 from 7,5 % to 8,2 % but then it declined 
sharply between 2019 and the review investigation period where losses were reported (– 1,6 %). The Union 
industry was not able to increase sales prices to cover the increased cost of production and therefore became loss 
making. 
(148) The net cash flow is the ability of the Union producers to self-finance their activities. The trend in net cash flow 
developed downwards with a significant decrease by 72 % over the period considered. Therefore, the Union 
industry experienced difficulties to self-finance its activities, which is a further indication of its deteriorated 
financial situation. 
(149) The return on investments is the profit in percentage of the net book value of investments. It followed a similar 
negative trend as profitability and net cash flow. The return on investment decreased significantly between 2018 
and the review investigation period and turned negative in the review investigation period. Therefore, the Union 
industry was not able to generate enough profits in order to cover its investments. Indeed, the Union industry 
maintained its investments during the period considered, mostly due to the necessity to comply with legal 
requirements and the needs of the market and it was not able to have a return on these investments. The 
negative development of the return on investment during the period considered further indicated that the overall 
financial situation of the Union industry worsened to a significant extent. 
(150) The sampled Union producers’ ability to raise capital was affected by their deteriorated financial situation. The 
considerable decrease of the profitability and the net cash flow pointed to serious concerns as regards the liquidity 
situation of Union industry and its ability to raise capital to finance its operating activity and needed investments. 
5.4.4. Conclusion on injury 
(151) The evolution of the micro and macro indicators during the period considered showed that the financial situation 
for the Union industry deteriorated. Overall, the trends of the main economic indicators worsened over the period 
considered. 
(152) While the Union industry’s production capacity remained stable, the capacity utilisation decreased by 16 % 
between 2018 and the review investigation period, which resulted in higher fixed cost per tonne of ARW. 
Following the same trend, the Union industry’s sales quantity and market share in the period considered declined. 
(153) The financial situation of the Union industry deteriorated mainly due to the increased cost of production, which 
could not be covered by a corresponding increase of its sales prices. 
(154) The average Union industry’s sales prices decreased by 6 % during the period considered although the average 
cost of production increased by 9 % in the same period. The Union industry suffered losses as from 2020, which 
further increased in the review investigation period. While net investments decreased by 42 %, the return on 
investment became negative during the period considered. The trend of the cash flow was also negative, which 
affected the ability of the Union industry to self-finance its operations. The number of employees decreased 
during the same period by 6 %; however, the productivity decreased by 13 %, resulting in a higher labour cost per 
item of ARW. 
(155) As set out above, economic indicators such as profitability, cash flow and return on investment deteriorated 
significantly during the period considered. Profitability became negative in 2020 and during the review investi­
gation period. This negatively affected the ability of the Union industry to self-finance operations, to make 
necessary investments and to raise capital, thus impeding its growth and even threatening its survival. On the 
other hand, despite the declining trends, the Union industry still managed to maintain large sales volume and 
considerable market share. 
(156) The Commission therefore concluded that the Union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of 
Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation during the review investigation period.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/89

 
(157) The Commission assessed whether there was a causal link between imports from the PRC and the injury suffered 
by Union industry. 
(158) As explained in recital 114, the volumes from the PRC decreased by 29 % during the period considered and 
reached 3,4 % market share during the review investigation period. The Commission also found in recital 117 
that the average price of the imports from China was above the average price charged by the Union industry 
during the review investigation period. Consequently, the Commission concluded that the injury suffered by the 
Union industry was not caused by the imports from the PRC during the review investigation period. 
(159) At the same time, the Commission provisionally established in the separate on-going investigation concerning 
imports of ARWs from Morocco, that low priced imports from Morocco, which were not only undercutting but 
also exercising price suppression on the Union industry prices and came in significant quantities, caused the 
material injury suffered by the Union industry. 
(160) Therefore, the Commission further examined the likelihood of recurrence of injury if the measures lapse. 
6. LIKELIHOOD OF RECURRENCE OF INJURY 
(161) The Commission concluded in recital 156 that the Union industry did not suffer material injury from imports 
originating in the PRC during the review investigation period. Therefore, the Commission assessed, in accordance 
with Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation, whether there would be a likelihood of recurrence of injury originally 
caused by the dumped imports from the PRC if the measures were allowed to lapse. 
(162) In order to establish whether there is a likelihood of recurrence of injury originally caused by the dumped imports 
from the country concerned, the Commission considered the following elements: (i) production volume and spare 
capacity in the PRC and attractiveness of the Union market; (ii) likely price levels of imports from the PRC and 
their impact on the Union industry’s situation, should the measures allowed to lapse; and (iii) the existence of 
circumvention practices. 
6.1. 
Production volume and spare capacity in the PRC – attractiveness of the Union market 
(163) As set out in recital 101, the production capacity in the PRC substantially exceeded the production volumes and 
demand on the Chinese domestic market. Given in addition the conclusions on the attractiveness of the Union 
market as described in recitals 104 and 105, such spare capacity will very likely largely be used to increase 
exports to the Union market, if measures were allowed to lapse. 
6.2. 
Likely price levels of imports from the PRC and their impact on the Union industry’s situation 
should the measures lapse 
(164) In order to assess the impact of future imports on the situation of the Union industry, the Commission 
considered that price levels of the Chinese exports to other third markets would be a reasonable indicator of 
future price levels to the Union market. 
(165) As set out in the recitals 102 to 105, the Commission analysed the price level of Chinese exports to other third 
markets and found these export prices were significantly lower when compared with the Union industry prices 
(i.e. 13 %). Therefore, the Union market, in terms of prices, remains very attractive for Chinese producers. 
(166) Considering the above, and if confronted with an increase of low priced imports from the PRC, the Union 
producers, in an attempt to keep sales volumes and market shares, would be forced to reduce their prices. This 
would have an impact on the industry’s overall profitability, which would deteriorate even further in an already 
loss-making situation (– 1,6 %) during the review investigation period. 
(167) On the other hand, if the Union industry would keep its current price levels, this would have an almost 
immediate negative impact on its sales and production volume as well as its market share. Moreover, a 
decrease in production volume would result in an increase of the item costs of production due to reduced 
benefits of economy of scale. This would further deteriorate the Union industry’s profitability and result into 
further losses already in the short term.
EN 
L 18/90 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023

 
(168) With a loss of profitability, the Union industry would not be able to carry out necessary investments. Ultimately, 
this would also lead to loss of employment and risk of closure of production lines. 
6.3. 
Conclusion 
(169) In view of the above, the Commission concluded that the expiry of the measures would in all likelihood result in 
a significant increase of dumped imports from the PRC at lower prices than the ones of the Union industry, and 
therefore further aggravate the already negative situation of the Union industry. It is highly likely that this would 
lead to a recurrence of material injury and as a consequence, the viability of the Union industry would be at 
serious risk. 
7. UNION INTEREST 
7.1. 
Interest of the Union industry 
(170) If ARWs imports originating from Morocco are subject to anti-dumping measures, the only cause for material 
injury which would remain would be the imports from China. Therefore, should the measures against China be 
let to expire, the material injury caused by the imports from that country will resume. 
(171) The effect of anti-dumping measures will be positive for the Union producers, as measures will help the Union 
industry to adapt its sales prices to cover the increased cost of production. Therefore, measures would help the 
Union industry return to a sustainable situation, allowing it to make future investments, in particular to comply 
with environmental and social requirements. 
(172) In the absence of measures, the Union industry no longer be protected against the likely increase of cheap 
imports from China, which will cause material injury. As a result, its financial situation, in particular in terms of 
profitability, return on investments and cash flow, would be expected to worsen further. 
7.2. 
Interest of unrelated importers, traders and users 
(173) The Commission contacted all known unrelated importers, traders and users. None of them replied to the 
Commission’s questionnaire. 
(174) The Commission did not receive any comments indicating that the maintenance of the measures would have a 
significant negative impact on the importers and users, outweighing the positive impact of the measures on the 
Union industry. 
7.3. 
Conclusion on Union interest 
(175) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that there were no compelling reasons indicating that it 
was not in the Union interest to maintain the existing measures on imports of the product concerned originating 
in the PRC. 
8. ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 
(176) Based on the conclusions reached by the Commission concerning the continuation of dumping from the PRC, the 
recurrence of injury caused by dumped imports from the PRC, and the Union interest, the Commission found 
that the anti-dumping measures on imports of certain aluminium road wheels originating in the PRC should be 
maintained. 
(177) All interested parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended 
to recommend that the existing measures be maintained. They were also granted a period to make representations 
subsequent to this disclosure. No comments were received. 
(178) In view of Article 109 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 44 ) 
when an amount is to be reimbursed following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the 
interest to be paid should be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing oper­
ations, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union on the first calendar day of each 
month.
EN 
19.1.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 18/91 
( 44 ) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules 
applicable to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) 
No 1303/2013, (EU) No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and 
Decision No 541/2014/EU and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1).

 
(179) The measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by 
Article 15(1) Regulation (EU) 2016/1036, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
1. 
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of aluminium road wheels of the motor vehicles of 
CN headings 8701 to 8705, whether or not with their accessories and whether or not fitted with tyres, currently falling 
under CN codes ex 8708 70 10 and ex 8708 70 50 (TARIC codes 8708 70 10 15, 8708 70 10 50, 8708 70 50 15 and 
8708 70 50 50) and originating in the People’s Republic of China. 
2. 
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price before duty, of the 
product described in paragraph 1 shall be 22,3 %. 
3. 
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply. 
Article 2 
Where a declaration for release for free circulation is presented in respect of imports of aluminium road wheels of 
vehicles of CN heading 8716, whether or not with their accessories and whether or not fitted with tyres, and currently 
falling under CN code ex 8716 90 90, TARIC code 8716 90 90 15 or 8716 90 90 50 shall be entered in the relevant 
field of that declaration. Member States shall, on a monthly basis, inform the Commission of the number of items 
imported under this code, and of their origin. 
Article 3 
Where a declaration for release for free circulation is presented in respect of the products mentioned under Articles 1 
and 2, the number of items of the products imported shall be entered in the relevant field of that declaration. 
Article 4 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 18 January 2023. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN 
L 18/92 
Official Journal of the European Union 
19.1.2023