COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 456/2012 
of 30 May 2012 
amending Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007 on implementing rules for Council Directive 2000/75/EC 
as regards the control, monitoring, surveillance and restrictions on movements of certain animals of 
susceptible species in relation to bluetongue 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, 
Having regard to Council Directive 2000/75/EC of 20 November 
2000 laying down specific provisions for the control and eradi­
cation of bluetongue ( 1 ), and in particular Article 9(1)(c), 
Articles 11 and 12 and the third paragraph of Article 19 
thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007 ( 2 ) lays 
down rules for the control, monitoring, surveillance 
and restrictions on movements of animals, in relation 
to bluetongue, in and from the restricted zones. It also 
establishes the conditions for exemptions from the exit 
ban applicable to movements of susceptible animals, 
their semen, ova and embryos provided for in Directive 
2000/75/EC, including rules on the use of vaccines 
against bluetongue. 
(2) 
Under the current rules laid down in Directive 
2000/75/EC, the use of vaccines against bluetongue is 
not permitted outside protection zones. Directive 
2012/5/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 14 March 2012 amending Council Directive 
2000/75/EC as regards vaccination against bluetongue ( 3 ) 
makes the rules on vaccination laid down in Directive 
2000/75/EC more flexible in order to allow vaccination 
with inactivated vaccines against bluetongue also outside 
the areas subject to animal movement restrictions. As a 
consequence, Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007 should be 
amended. Furthermore, amendments are necessary to 
simplify the process of monitoring and surveillance and 
to adapt the procedures established by Regulation (EC) 
No 1266/2007 to recent scientific opinions. 
(3) 
For the purpose of gathering and analysing epidemi­
ological information on bluetongue, Regulation (EC) No 
1266/2007 provides that Member States are to transmit 
to the BlueTongue NETwork application (BT-Net system) 
information on bluetongue gathered in the course of the 
implementation of the bluetongue monitoring and 
surveillance programmes. 
(4) 
However, experience shows that there is sufficient 
information available in the framework of other 
existing 
Union 
disease 
notification 
and 
reporting 
obligations. The obligation to exchange information 
through the BT-Net system is therefore no longer 
necessary. 
(5) 
Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007, as amended by 
Commission Regulation (EC) No 123/2009 ( 4 ) introduced 
the possibility for Member States to demarcate, under 
certain conditions, ‘lower risk areas’ to facilitate 
preventive vaccination in parts of their territory 
without virus circulation. As a consequence of the 
entry into force of Directive 2012/5/EU, whereby vacci­
nation against bluetongue may be performed also outside 
restricted zones the provisions for the demarcation of 
‘lower risk areas’ are no longer necessary. 
(6) 
In accordance with Article 6(2) of Regulation (EC) No 
1266/2007, a Member State may decide to remove an 
epidemiological geographical relevant area from a 
restricted zone, and thereby claim freedom from disease 
in that area after two years of absence of virus circulation 
as proven by monitoring. 
(7) 
However, those parts of a restricted zone where for at 
least one year, including a full vector activity season, 
monitoring and surveillance show that no virus circu­
lation of a specific bluetongue serotype or serotypes 
has taken place, are at risk of reintroduction of the 
disease by introduction of infectious animals from 
other parts of the same restricted zone where the blue­
tongue virus is still circulating. For these situations, in 
order to provide for a safe transition towards freedom 
from 
disease 
under 
favourable 
epidemiological 
conditions, Member States should be allowed to 
demarcate a ‘provisionally free area’ subject to the 
condition that monitoring and surveillance to ascertain 
the absence of virus circulation is carried out. 
(8) 
According to the Scientific Opinion of the Panel on 
Animal Health and Welfare of the EFSA on the ‘Risk 
of Bluetongue Transmission in Animal Transit’, adopted 
on 11 September 2008 ( 5 ), there is a theoretical possi­
bility that infectious midges co-travel with the animals. 
That risk might be controlled by cleaning the vehicle and 
treating it with insecticides or repellents before loading 
the animals or when moving animals through areas 
known to be at low risk or at a period of time when
EN 
31.5.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 141/7 
( 1 ) OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 74. 
( 2 ) OJ L 283, 27.10.2007, p. 37. 
( 3 ) OJ L 81, 21.3.2012, p. 1. 
( 4 ) OJ L 40, 11.2.2009, p. 3. 
( 5 ) EFSA Journal 2008; 795, 18-65.
the risk is known to be low. In order to limit undesired 
effects to the environment of those substances and to 
avoid possible problems as regards waiting periods and 
possible residues in the animals, the treatment of animals 
with authorised insecticides or repellents should no 
longer be required as this treatment provides for 
limited additional safety. 
(9) 
Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007, as amended by Imple­
menting Regulation (EU) No 648/2011 ( 1 ), allows, for a 
transitional period, Member States of destination, in 
which the introduction of non-immune animals under 
certain circumstances could pose a risk for animal 
health, to require that the movement of such animals 
is subject to certain additional conditions. As rules on 
criteria for vector protected establishments are laid down 
in this Regulation, that transitional provision is no longer 
necessary. 
(10) 
Due to the different levels of virus circulation, environ­
mental conditions and different vaccination strategies in 
the Member States, the epidemiological situations as 
regards bluetongue may differ considerably in different 
areas of the Union. Experience has shown that different 
surveillance strategies may be successfully implemented 
to 
achieve the 
desired objectives. Therefore, the 
minimum harmonised requirements for monitoring and 
surveillance as laid down in Annex I to Regulation (EC) 
No 1266/2007 should be simplified to allow for more 
flexibility for the Member States to design their national 
monitoring and surveillance programmes, taking into 
account the Scientific Opinion of the EFSA Panel on 
Animal Health and Welfare on bluetongue monitoring 
and surveillance ( 2 ). 
(11) 
Based on the abovementioned Scientific Opinion, the 
minimum sample size to detect a prevalence of 5 % 
with 95 % confidence in the susceptible species popu­
lation should be sufficient for surveillance for the 
purpose of demonstrating the absence of virus circulation 
in an epidemiological relevant geographical area during a 
period of two years. 
(12) 
Keeping bluetongue susceptible animals in a vector proof 
establishment for a specified period of time is an 
important 
requirement 
for 
certain 
conditions 
for 
exemptions from the exit ban as set out in Annex III 
to Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007. Experience shows that 
it is difficult for Member States to establish proper 
criteria for the implementation of a vector proof estab­
lishment for regular movements for trade in animals of 
susceptible species such as cattle, sheep and goats. 
(13) 
In order to improve the effectiveness of vector proof 
establishments and to assist the Member States in their 
implementation of that control measure, a number of 
criteria should be established. Those criteria should be 
based on experiences of the Member States and the 
Terrestrial Animal Health Code of the World Organi­
sation for Animal Health (OIE). To align the terminology 
with the OIE, the term ‘vector proof establishment’, 
currently used in Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007, 
should be replaced by ‘vector protected establishment’. 
(14) 
In response to new scientific information which indicates 
the possibility of transplacental transmission of the blue­
tongue virus, in particular for bluetongue virus serotype 
8, precautionary measures to prevent the possible spread 
of bluetongue by pregnant animals or certain newborn 
animals were introduced in 
Regulation (EC) 
No 
1266/2007, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 
384/2008 ( 3 ). 
(15) 
According to the Scientific Opinion of the Panel on 
Animal Health and Welfare of the EFSA on bluetongue 
serotype 8 ( 4 ), there is scientific evidence for transpla­
cental transmission of bluetongue virus serotype 8 
which was introduced in the Union in 2006. However, 
transplacental transmission of other serotypes of the 
bluetongue virus in affected areas where no modified 
live vaccines have been used has not been shown. In 
the light of the conclusions of that opinion, the 
precautionary measure as regards the movement of 
pregnant animals should only apply for zones which 
are restricted for bluetongue virus serotype 8. 
(16) 
Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007 should therefore be 
amended accordingly. 
(17) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in 
accordance 
with 
the 
opinion 
of 
the 
Standing 
Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007 is amended as follows: 
(1) Article 4 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 4 
Bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes 
Member States shall implement bluetongue monitoring and 
surveillance programmes in accordance with the minimum 
requirements set out in Annex I.’; 
(2) Article 5 is deleted; 
(3) in Article 6, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
Before taking any decision to remove an epidemi­
ologically relevant geographical area from a restricted 
zone, Member States shall provide the Commission with 
substantiated information demonstrating the absence of 
bluetongue virus circulation in that area during a period 
of two years, including two full vector activity seasons,
EN 
L 141/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
31.5.2012 
( 1 ) OJ L 176, 5.7.2011, p. 18. 
( 2 ) EFSA Journal 2011; 9(6): 2192. 
( 3 ) OJ L 116, 30.4.2008, p. 3. 
( 4 ) EFSA Journal 2011; 9(5): 2189.
following the implementation of the bluetongue monitoring 
and surveillance programme in accordance with point 3 of 
Annex I.’; 
(4) in Article 7, paragraph 2a is replaced by the following: 
‘2a. 
Member States may demarcate an epidemiological 
relevant geographical area in a restricted zone as a “pro­
visionally free area” provided that for a period of one year, 
including 
one 
full 
vector 
season, 
monitoring 
and 
surveillance in accordance with point 3 of Annex I has 
demonstrated the absence of bluetongue virus circulation 
in that part of the restricted zone for that specific blue­
tongue serotype or combination of serotypes. 
A Member State which intends to demarcate a restricted 
zone or part of a restricted zone as a “provisionally free 
area” shall notify its intention to the Commission. That 
notification shall be accompanied by the information 
referred to in point 3 of Annex I. 
The Commission shall inform the Member States in the 
framework of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain 
and Animal Health of the list of “provisionally free areas”. 
Movements of animals within the same restricted zone from 
an area where the same bluetongue virus serotype or 
serotypes are circulating to a part of the same restricted 
zone demarcated as a “provisionally free area” may only 
be permitted if: 
(a) the animals comply with the conditions set out in 
Annex III; or 
(b) the animals comply with any other appropriate animal 
health guarantees based on a positive outcome of a risk 
assessment of measures against the spread of the blue­
tongue virus and protection against attacks by vectors, 
required by the competent authority of the place of 
origin and approved by the competent authority of 
the place of destination, prior to the movement of 
such animals; or 
(c) the animals are destined for immediate slaughter.’; 
(5) in Article 8(5), the third subparagraph is replaced by the 
following: 
‘Information on the designated slaughterhouses shall be 
made available to the other Member States and to the 
public.’; 
(6) Article 9 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 9 
Further conditions for the transit of animals 
1. 
The transit of animals shall be allowed by the 
competent authority provided that: 
(a) after adequate cleansing and disinfection at the place of 
loading, the means in which the animals are transported 
are treated with authorised insecticides and/or repellents. 
This treatment must in any case take place prior to 
leaving or entering the restricted zone; 
(b) when a rest period of more than one day is foreseen at 
a control post during the movement through a 
restricted zone, the animals are protected against 
attacks by vectors in a vector protected establishment 
in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex II. 
2. 
Paragraph 1 shall not apply if the transit takes place: 
(a) exclusively from or through epidemiologically relevant 
geographical areas of the restricted zone during the 
bluetongue seasonally vector-free period defined in 
accordance with Annex V; or 
(b) from or through parts of the restricted zone demarcated 
as a “provisionally free area” in accordance with 
Article 7(2a). 
3. 
For the animals referred to in paragraph 1 of this 
Article, the following additional wording shall be added to 
the corresponding health certificates laid down in Directives 
64/432/EEC, 91/68/EEC and 92/65/EEC, or referred to in 
Decision 93/444/EEC: “Insecticide/repellent treatment with 
… (insert name of the product) on … (insert date) in 
conformity with Article 9 of Regulation (EC) 
No 
1266/2007.” ’; 
(7) Article 9a is deleted; 
(8) Annexes I, II, III and V are amended in accordance with the 
Annex to this Regulation. 
Article 2 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the fifth day following 
that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 30 May 2012. 
For the Commission 
The President 
José Manuel BARROSO
EN 
31.5.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 141/9
ANNEX 
Annexes I, II, III and V to Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007 are amended as follows: 
(1) Annex I is replaced by the following: 
‘ANNEX I 
Minimum requirements for bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes (referred to in Article 4) 
1. General requirements 
Bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes shall be aimed at; 
(a) detecting any possible incursions of the bluetongue virus and; 
(b) where appropriate, demonstrating the absence of certain serotypes of that virus in a Member State or 
epidemiologically relevant geographical area; or 
(c) determining the seasonally vector free period (entomological surveillance). 
The geographical unit of reference for the purposes of bluetongue monitoring and surveillance shall be defined by 
a grid of around 45 x 45 km (approximately 2 000 km 2 ) unless specific environmental conditions justify a 
different size. 
If appropriate, Member States may also use the “region” as defined in Article 2.2(p) of Directive 64/432/EEC or the 
regions as defined in Annex X to Commission Decision 2005/176/EC of 1 March 2005 laying down the codified 
form and the codes for the notification of animal diseases pursuant to Council Directive 82/894/EEC ( 1 ) as the 
geographical unit of reference for monitoring and surveillance purposes. 
2. Bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes aimed at detecting any possible incursions of the bluetongue virus 
Bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes aimed at detecting any possible incursions of the bluetongue 
virus shall consist of at least passive clinical surveillance and active laboratory-based surveillance. 
2.1. Passive clinical surveillance shall consist of a formal and properly documented ongoing system aimed at 
detecting and investigating any suspicions, including an early warning system for reporting suspicions. 
Owners or holders and veterinarians must promptly report any suspicion to the competent authority. 
2.2. Active laboratory-based surveillance shall consist of an annual programme of at least one, or a combination 
of, serological/virological monitoring with sentinel animals, serological/virological surveys, or targeted moni­
toring and surveillance based on a risk assessment. 
— Sampling may take place at pre-defined intervals throughout the year but shall at least be carried out once 
a year performed in the period of the year when infection or seroconversion is most likely to be detected. 
— The bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes must be designed in such a way that the 
samples are taken from susceptible animals (that is animals which have not been vaccinated and which 
have been exposed to the competent vector), which are representative for the structure of the susceptible 
species population in the epidemiologically relevant geographical area. 
— The sample size must be calculated to detect the appropriate design prevalence based on the known risk 
of the target population with 95 % confidence in the susceptible species population of that epidemi­
ologically relevant geographical area. In the absence of scientific information on the expected prevalence 
for the target population the sample size must be calculated to detect a prevalence of 20 %.
EN 
L 141/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
31.5.2012
— Whenever the samples do not originate from individual animals, the sample size must be adjusted 
according to the sensitivity of the diagnostic procedures applied. 
— Laboratory-based surveillance shall be designed in such a way that positive screening tests are followed by 
the specific serotype serological/virological tests targeted to the bluetongue serotype or serotypes expected 
to be present in the epidemiologically relevant geographical area necessary to ascertain the specific 
serotype circulating. 
3. Bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes aimed at demonstrating the absence of certain serotypes of the bluetongue 
virus in a Member State or epidemiologically relevant geographical area 
Bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes aimed at the demonstration of the absence of bluetongue 
virus circulation must comply with the conditions set out in points 2.1 and 2.2. The sample size used for the 
active laboratory-based surveillance must be calculated to detect a prevalence of 5 % ( 2 ) with 95 % confidence. In 
addition: 
(a) for the purpose of removing an epidemiologically relevant geographical area from a restricted zone as referred 
to in Article 6(2), Member States must demonstrate the absence of bluetongue virus circulation during a period 
of at least two years, including two seasons of vector activity; 
Member States shall submit to the Commission relevant historical epidemiological information on the moni­
toring and surveillance programme in place and its yearly results during the past three years, including at least: 
(i) a description of the surveys currently being carried out and the type of diagnostic test performed (ELISA, 
serum neutralisation, PCR, virus isolation); 
(ii) the sampled species and the number of samples taken per susceptible animal species; if pools of sera are 
used, an estimation of the numbers of animals corresponding to the pools tested must be reported; 
(iii) the geographical coverage of the samples; 
(iv) the frequency and timing of sampling; 
(v) the number of positive results specified by animals species and geographical location. 
(b) for the purpose of demarcating a “provisionally free area” as referred to in Article 7(2a), Member States must 
demonstrate the absence of bluetongue virus circulation during a period of at least one year, including one 
season of vector activity. 
Member States shall submit to the Commission relevant historical epidemiological information on the moni­
toring and surveillance programme in place and its results during the past two years, including at least the 
information as laid down in points (a)(i) to (v). 
4. Bluetongue monitoring and surveillance programmes aimed at determining the seasonally vector free period (entomological 
surveillance) 
Entomological surveillance to determine the seasonally vector-free period as referred to in Annex V, shall meet the 
following requirements: 
(a) it must consist of at least an active annual programme of vector catching by means of permanently sited 
aspiration traps intended to determine the population dynamics of the vector; 
(b) aspiration traps equipped with ultraviolet light must be used in accordance with pre-established protocols; the 
traps must be operated throughout the night and operate at a rate of at least: 
— one night per week during the month before the expected beginning and during the month before the 
expected end of the seasonally vector-free period, 
— one night per month during the seasonally vector-free period. 
On the basis of the evidence obtained in the three first years of the operation of the aspiration traps, the 
frequency of operation of those traps may be adjusted;
EN 
31.5.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 141/11
(c) at least one aspiration trap must be placed in each epidemiologically relevant area all over the bluetongue 
seasonally free zone. A proportion of the midges collected in the aspiration traps must be sent to a specialised 
laboratory capable of counting and identifying the suspected vector species. 
___________ 
( 1 ) OJ L 59, 5.3.2005, p. 40. 
( 2 ) For a transitional period until 31 August 2012, the sample size of the survey may be calculated to detect a 
prevalence of 20 %.’; 
(2) Annex II is replaced by the following: 
‘ANNEX II 
Criteria for the “vector protected establishment” (referred to in points 2, 3and 4 of Section A of Annex III, 
point (b) of Section B and point 2(b) of Section C in that Annex) 
1. A vector protected establishment shall at least comply with the following: 
(a) it must have appropriate physical barriers at entry and exit points; 
(b) openings of the vector protected establishment must be vector screened with mesh of appropriate gauge which 
must be impregnated regularly with an approved insecticide according to the manufacturers’ instructions; 
(c) vector surveillance and control must be carried out within and around the vector protected establishment; 
(d) measures must be taken to limit or eliminate breeding sites for vectors in the vicinity of the vector protected 
establishment; 
(e) standard operating procedures must be in place, including descriptions of back-up and alarm systems, for 
operation of the vector protected establishment and transport of animals to the place of loading. 
2. The competent authority shall approve an establishment as vector protected, if the criteria in point 1 are met. It 
shall verify at the appropriate frequency, but at least three times during the required protection period (at the 
beginning, during and at the end of the period) the effectiveness of the measures carried out by means of a vector 
trap inside the vector protected establishment.’; 
(3) Annex III is amended as follows: 
(a) Section A is amended as follows: 
(i) in point 2, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 
‘The animals have been kept, until dispatch, protected against attacks by vectors in a vector protected 
establishment in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex II for a period of at least 60 days prior to 
the date of dispatch.’; 
(ii) in point 3, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 
‘The animals have been kept, until dispatch, in a bluetongue seasonally free zone during the seasonally vector- 
free period, defined in accordance with Annex V, or have been protected against attacks by vectors in a vector 
protected establishment in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex II for a period of at least 28 days 
and were subjected during that period to a serological test according to the OIE Terrestrial Manual to detect 
antibodies to the bluetongue virus group, with negative results, carried out on samples collected from that 
animal at least 28 days following the date of the commencement of the period of protection against attacks 
by vectors or the seasonally vector-free period.’; 
(iii) in point 4, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 
‘The animals have been kept, until dispatch, in a bluetongue seasonally free zone during the seasonally vector- 
free period, defined in accordance with Annex V, or have been protected against attacks by vectors in a vector 
protected establishment in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex II for a period of at least 14 days 
and were subjected during that period to an agent identification test according to the OIE Terrestrial Manual, 
with negative results, carried out on samples collected from that animal at least 14 days following the date of 
commencement of the period of protection against attacks by vectors or the seasonally vector-free period.’;
EN 
L 141/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
31.5.2012
(iv) point 5 is replaced by the following: 
‘5. The animals have been vaccinated against the serotype(s) present or likely to be present in an epidemi­
ologically relevant geographical area of origin, the animals are still within the immunity period of time 
guaranteed in the specifications of the vaccine and the animals meet at least one of the following 
requirements: 
(a) they have been vaccinated more than 60 days before the date of movement; 
(b) they have been vaccinated with an inactivated vaccine before at least the number of days necessary for 
the onset of the immunity protection set in the specifications of the vaccine and were subjected to an 
agent identification test according to the OIE Terrestrial Manual, with negative results, carried out at 
least 14 days after the onset of the immunity protection set in the specifications of the vaccine; 
(c) they were previously vaccinated and they have been revaccinated with an inactivated vaccine within 
the immunity period of time guaranteed in the specifications of the vaccine; 
(d) they were kept during the seasonally vector-free period, defined in accordance with Annex V, in a 
bluetongue seasonally free zone, since birth or for a period of at least 60 days before the date of 
vaccination and have been vaccinated with an inactivated vaccine before at least the number of days 
necessary for the onset of the immunity protection set in the specifications of the vaccine. 
Where animals referred to in this point are intended for intra-Union trade, the following additional 
wording shall be added to the corresponding health certificates laid down in Directives 64/432/EEC, 
91/68/EEC and 92/65/EEC: 
“Animal(s) vaccinated against bluetongue serotype/s … (insert serotype/s) with … (insert name of the vaccine) 
with a inactivated/modified live vaccine (indicate, as appropriate) in conformity with Annex III.A(5) to 
Regulation (EC) No 1266/2007.” ’; 
(v) in point 6, the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: 
‘6. The animals were always kept in an epidemiologically relevant geographical area of origin where not 
more than one serotype was or is present or likely to be present and:’; 
(vi) point 7 is amended as follows: 
— the introductory phrase is replaced by the following: 
‘7. The animals were subjected with positive results to two adequate serological tests according to the 
OIE Terrestrial Manual able to detect specific antibodies against all the bluetongue virus serotypes 
present or likely to be present, in the epidemiologically relevant geographical area of origin, and:’; 
— the third subparagraph is replaced by the following: 
‘For pregnant animals being moved from a restricted zone for bluetongue virus serotype 8, at least one of 
the conditions set out in points 5, 6 and 7 must have been complied with before insemination or mating, 
or the condition set out in point 3 must be complied with. In case a serological test, as set out in point 3, 
is carried out, that test shall be carried out not earlier than seven days before the date of movement.’; 
(b) in Section B, point (b) is replaced by the following: 
‘(b) they have been protected against attacks by vectors in a vector protected establishment in accordance with 
the criteria set out in Annex II for a period of at least 60 days before commencement of, and during, 
collection of the semen;’; 
(c) in Section C, in point 2, (b) is replaced by the following: 
‘(b) they have been protected against attacks by vectors in a vector protected establishment in accordance with 
the criteria set out in Annex II for at least 60 days before commencement of, and during, collection of the 
embryos/ova;’; 
(4) in Annex V, the title is replaced by the following: 
‘ANNEX V 
Criteria for the definition of the seasonally vector-free period (referred to in Article 9(2))’
EN 
31.5.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 141/13
