COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/424 
of 19 March 2020 
on submitting information to the Commission as regards non-application of technical specifications 
for interoperability in accordance with Directive (EU) 2016/797 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Directive (EU) 2016/797 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the 
interoperability of the rail system within the European Union (1), and in particular Article 7(5) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Article 7(1) of the Directive (EU) 2016/797 provides that Member States may allow an applicant not to apply one or 
more technical specifications for interoperability (‘TSIs’) or part of them, in cases, which are listed exhaustively in 
points (a) to (e) of the Article. 
(2) 
Member States’ communication of their decision in cases referred to in point (a) of Article 7(1), or Member States’ 
request for non-application in the cases referred to in points (c), (d) and (e), should contain information justifying 
the non-application and specifying the alternative provisions to be applied instead of the TSIs. 
(3) 
The request should include the reference to the non-applied TSI provisions, describe the project concerned, its scope 
and timelines as well as provide any other relevant information to assist the Commission in assessing the compliance 
of the non-application with the requirements set out in Article 7(1). 
(4) 
Once transitional measures provided by a TSI expire, Member States should permit applicants not to apply the TSI or 
parts of them pursuant to Article 7(1)(a) of the Directive only in duly justified case. In that event, the communication 
to the Commission should include all necessary information and justifications. 
(5) 
In order to facilitate communication with the Commission, Member States should use a template when they submit 
their non-application decision for a project at an advanced stage of development pursuant to point (a) of Article 7(1). 
This template could also be used for the notification of a list of projects at an advanced stage of development 
pursuant to Article 7(2) of the Directive. 
(6) 
The request for non-application of one or more TSIs or parts of them should be sent to the Commission by 
electronic means in order to ensure a paperless administration. The date by which Member States are delivering a 
request or supplement information to the Commission’s mailbox should be the submission date for the purpose of 
Article 7(7) of the Directive. 
(7) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Rail Interoperability and 
Safety Committee, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Scope 
This Regulation establishes the information to be included in, and the format and the method to be used for the 
transmission of a request for non-application of one or more technical specifications for interoperability (‘TSIs’) or parts of 
them within the meaning of Article 7(4) of Directive (EU) 2016/797 (hereafter ‘request for non-application’), in accordance 
to which Member States shall either, communicate to the Commission a decision of non-application under point (a), or 
submit to the Commission a request for non-application under points (c), (d) or (e) of Article 7(1) of the Directive. 
(1) OJ L 138, 26.5.2016, p. 44. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 84/20                                                                                                                                           
20.3.2020   

Article 2 
Information contained in the request for non-application 
1.
A request for non-application shall contain the following information: 
(a) a reference to the case referred to in Article 7(1) of Directive (EU) 2016/797 under which the non-application is 
considered to be justified; 
(b) the reference to the title(s) of the TSI or TSIs covered by the request for non-application and to the provision(s) not 
applied. Each reference shall include, where relevant for assessing compliance, the time period or an estimate thereof, 
during which the non-application will continue; 
(c) the essential details of the project concerned, consisting of the technical, operational and geographical elements of the 
project, including a detailed description of the subsystem, vehicle or infrastructure requested to benefit from the non- 
application, and relevant key dates, or any other details distinguishing it from other projects; 
(d) a reference to and details of the alternative provisions that the Member State intends to apply to compensate each non- 
application in the light of relevant essential requirements, including the measures to be taken to monitor their 
implementation and, where operational alternatives were agreed, their continuous application; 
(e) where more than one Member State is concerned, information on coordination taking place in accordance with the 
final sentence in Article 7(4) of Directive (EU) 2016/797 and/or Article 17(2) of Commission Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2018/545 (2), when requests for non-application are linked to vehicle authorisations; the same 
information shall be provided for cross border infrastructure projects; 
(f) an economic or technical analysis or both, ensuring that the non-application is justified and limited to the extent 
necessary under the particular circumstances. 
2.
The request for non-application shall also provide the following specific information: 
(a) for requests made pursuant to point (a) of Article 7(1) of Directive (EU) 2016/797, the justification shall include: 
(i) 
the details of the project concerned, using the template established in the Annex. If the project is already on a list of 
advanced stage of development drawn up according to the same template, Member States may refer to it without 
having to re-submit the information already provided. The information shall be updated where relevant; 
(ii) evidence that the project is at an advanced stage of development or subject to a contract in course of performance, 
with documentation providing the evidence for relevant dates and scope of the project; 
(iii) evidence that the planning or construction stage of a project at an advanced stage of development has reached a 
point where a change in the technical specifications may compromise the viability of the project as planned, in 
accordance with the definition of ‘project at advanced stage of development’ in Article 2(23) of Directive (EU) 
2016/797; 
(b) for requests made pursuant to point (c) of Article 7(1) of Directive (EU) 2016/797, the justification shall include, 
depending on the nature of the non-application requested: 
(i) evidence that the application of one or more TSIs or part of them compromises the economic viability of the 
project. This evidence shall include a thorough economic analysis establishing unavoidable costs of compliance 
with the TSI, and providing evidence that such cost would render the project unviable. The analysis shall take into 
account exploitation revenue if the non-application allows earlier deployment and the longer term economic 
viability of the project within the national and European rail system; and/or 
(ii) evidence of the technical details justifying the negative impact of the application of one or more TSIs or part of 
them, on the project’s technical compatibility with the national rail system; 
(2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/545 of 4 April 2018 establishing practical arrangements for the railway vehicle 
authorisation and railway vehicle type authorisation process pursuant to Directive (EU) 2016/797 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council (OJ L 90, 6.4.2018, p. 66). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.3.2020                                                                                                                                           
L 84/21   

(c) for requests made pursuant to point (d) of Article 7(1) of Directive (EU) 2016/797, the justification shall include a list of 
the Member States and third countries concerned and the railway lines where the vehicles covered by the request are 
circulating; 
(d) for requests made pursuant to point (e) Article 7(1), the justification shall identify the network or network area(s) 
relevant for the request and justify its separation from the rail network of the rest of the Union, and/or its isolation. 
Article 3 
Format and method of transmission 
1.
The request for non-application shall be limited to 10 pages maximum. Supplementing information may be added 
through annexes to the request. 
2.
A communication or request for non-application and any subsequent information to complete the file shall be 
submitted by electronic means only, to the dedicated mail address of the Commission: 
MOVE-RAIL-DEROGATIONS@ec.europa.eu 
3.
The date for the purpose of Article 7(7) of Directive (EU) 2016/797 is the date when the request or subsequent 
information to complete the file was submitted by mail according to paragraph 2. 
4.
The acknowledgement of receipt issued by the Commission to the Member State within 7 days will contain a unique 
identifier with reference to the Member State concerned, the project and the year of submission. 
Member State shall refer to the unique identifier, whenever communicating with the Commission on the non-application case. 
Article 4 
Entry into force 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
This Regulation shall apply from 16 September 2020. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 19 March 2020.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 84/22                                                                                                                                           
20.3.2020   

ANNEX 
Template for presenting a project at an advanced stage of development where the non-application of one or more TSIs or part of them is requested for this 
project under point (a) of Article 7(1) of Directive (EU) 2016/797 and in line with the information requested with Article 2, points 1. and 2(a) of this Regulation 
Name of the project 
Details concerning the 
scope of the project 
All dates and actions relevant 
for justifying the advanced 
state of development charac­
ter or the contract signed 
Technical specifica­
tions not applied and 
alternative provi­
sions and/or stan­
dards applied 
Any other relevant informa­
tion, such as area(s) of use, 
including coordination in 
accordance with Art. 17(2) of 
Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2018/545. 
Information to justify the 
non-viability of the project 
Derogations already granted 
to that project (if any)   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.3.2020                                                                                                                                           
L 84/23