17.1.2020
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
L 13/15
COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/38
of 16 January 2020
establishing technical operational requirements for the recording, formatting and transmission of
information pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2017/2403 of the European Parliament and of the Council
on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Regulation'), and in particular Article 40(2) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)
The ‘SMEFF Regulation' provides for the adoption of implementing acts establishing technical operational
requirements for the recording, formatting and transmission of the information referred to in Titles II, II and IV of
that Regulation.
(2)
Article 40 of the SMEFF Regulation stipulates that the exchange of information referred to in Titles II, III and IV of
that Regulation is to be carried out in an electronic format. It is appropriate to establish the requirements for the
electronic completion and transmission of these data and to specify their format, as well as to set out the procedure
for changes to the format.
(3)
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/218 (2) requires the Member States to submit to the Commission
information on ownership, on vessel and gear characteristics and on the activity of Union fishing vessels flying their
flag. Information available in this database should be used in information exchanges on fishing authorisations as
required by the SMEFF Regulation.
(4)
The information included in the Union fishing authorisations database, set up in accordance with Article 39 of the
SMEFF Regulation, may contain personal data, including vessel identifiers and names and contact details of vessel
owners. The processing of such personal data is necessary for the effective management of the data and information
exchange as required by the SMEFF Regulation. It should be ensured at all times and at all levels that the obligations
relating to the protection of personal data set out in Regulations (EU) 2018/1725 (3) and (EU) 2016/679 () of the
European Parliament and of the Council are complied with. In order to ensure the sustainable management of the
external fishing fleet and of fishing in EU waters by vessels flying the flag of a third country, it is necessary to store
the data for a period of 10 years. In certain cases, data should be stored for a period exceeding 10 years.
(5)
Sufficient time should be given to Member States to adapt their national systems to the new data requirements laid
down in this Regulation.
(6)
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee for Fisheries and
Aquaculture,
(") OJ L 347, 28.12.2017, p. 81.
() Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/218 of 6 February 2017 on the Union fishing fleet register (OJ L 34, 9.2.2017, p. 9).
(3)1
with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data
Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1).

L 13/16
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
17.1.2020
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
Subject matter
This Regulation establishes technical operational requirements for the recording, formatting and transmission of the
information as referred to in Article 4O(2) of the SMEFF Regulation.
Article 2
Definitions
1.
For the purpose of this Regulation, the definitions set out in Article 3 of the SMEFF Regulation shall apply.
2.
For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definition shall also apply:
(a) 'Union fishing fleet database' means the register, kept by the Commission, containing information on all Union fishing
vessels in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/218 and supplemented by additional vessel details
required in the applications for fishing authorisations under the SMEFF Regulation.
(b) 'Union fishing authorisations database' means the database set up in accordance with Article 39 of the SMEFF
Regulation in order to ensure the exchange of information referred to in Titles II and III of that Regulation.
CHAPTER II
INFORMATION IN THE UNION FISHING AUTHORISATIONS DATABASE
Article 3
Applications for authorisation
1. When submitting applications for fishing authorisations in accordance with Article 39(3) of the SMEFF Regulation
2. 
The vessel information available in the Union fishing fleet database shall be used by the Union fishing authorisations
database to ensure data exchanges on fishing authorisations as required by the SMEFF Regulation.
Article 4
Format of the information exchanged
1. The format of the information exchanged between Member States, third countries and the Commission in accordance
with Articles 11, 18, 22 and 25 of the SMEFF Regulation shall be the Fishing License Authorization & Permit (FLAP)
Domain XML Schema Definition based on the United Nations Fisheries Language for Universal Exchange (UN/FLUX)
P1000-9 standard.
 Data fields, core components and well-formatted Extensible Markup Language (XML) messages shall comply with the
XML Schema Definition (XSD) based on the UN/FLUX standardisation libraries.
3. 
The XSD and codes on the Master Data Register page of the European Commission Fisheries website shall be used.

17.1.2020
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
L 13/17
4. Member States shall use the FLAP implementation document available on the European Commission fisheries website
to ensure that the correct messages are communicated and the correct procedures are followed for the Union fishing
authorisations database.
Article 5
Transmission of messages
 The transmission of messages shall be fully automated and immediate, using the transportation layer for fisheries data
exchanges as made available by the Commission.
2. 
rules set out in the FLAP implementation document.
3.The receiver of the message shall inform the sender of the reception and of the validation and verification results of
the message by transmitting a response message.
Article 6
Changes to XML formats and implementation documents
Amendments to the UN/FLUX FLAP domain XML format and the FLAP implementation document shall be decided
by the Commission services in concert with Member States.
2. 
The amendments referred to in paragraph 1 shall not come into effect earlier than 6 months and no later than 18
months after they have been decided. The timing shall be decided by the Commission services in concert with Member
States.
Article 7
Personal data
Personal data contained in the Union fishing authorisations database shall not be stored for a period longer than 1O years,
except if the personal data is necessary to allow the follow up of an infringement, an inspection, or judicial or
administrative procedures. In these cases, the personal data may be stored for 20 years. If personal data is retained for a
longer period, the data shall be anonymised.
CHAPTER III
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 8
Entry into force
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Oficial Journal of the
European Union.
It shall apply from 1 December 2020.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 16 January 2020.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN