II 
(Non-legislative acts) 
REGULATIONS 
COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2022/262 
of 7 September 2022 
amending Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 1233/2011 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council on the application of certain guidelines in the field of officially supported export credits 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 1233/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 
on the application of certain guidelines in the field of officially supported export credits and repealing Council Decisions 
2001/76/EC and 2001/77/EC ( 1 ), and in particular Article 2 thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Article 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1233/2011 lays down that the guidelines contained in the Arrangement on 
Officially Supported Export Credits (‘the Arrangement’) shall apply in the Union, the text of the Arrangement 
being contained in Annex II to that Regulation. 
(2) 
The Participants to the Arrangement have agreed upon a substantial number of amendments to the Arrangement 
as compared with the currently applicable version of the Arrangement contained in Annex II to Regulation (EU) 
No 1233/2011. 
(3) 
The main changes adopted by the Participants to the Arrangement and its various Sectors Understanding from 
February 2017, the date of the currently applicable version, to January 2022 are: an update in the Participants 
list, to add Turkey and the United Kingdom; a review of the Commercial Interest Reference Rates; a change in 
local cost provisions to allow for an increase of local cost support; and a ban on export credits and tied aid 
support for unabated coal-fired power plants. 
(4) 
On 10 January 2022, the OECD published a revised version of the Arrangement which takes into account all 
amendments adopted by its Participants until end 2021. It is appropriate and necessary to incorporate the said 
amendments into Union legislation. 
(5) 
Regulation (EU) No 1233/2011 should therefore be amended accordingly,
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/1 
( 1 ) OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 45.

 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 1233/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. 
Article 2 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 7 September 2022. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN 
L 38/2 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX 
‘ANNEX II 
CHAPTER I 
General provisions 
1. 
PURPOSE 
1. The main purpose of the Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits, referred to throughout this 
document as the Arrangement, is to provide a framework for the orderly use of officially supported export 
credits. 
2. The Arrangement seeks to foster a level playing field for official support, as defined in Article 5 a), in order to 
encourage competition among exporters based on quality and price of goods and services exported rather than 
on the most favourable officially supported financial terms and conditions. 
2. 
STATUS 
The Arrangement, developed within the OECD framework, initially came into effect in April 1978 and is of 
indefinite duration. The Arrangement is a Gentlemen’s Agreement among the Participants; it is not an OECD 
Act ( 1 ), although it receives the administrative support of the OECD Secretariat (hereafter: “the Secretariat”). 
3. 
PARTICIPATION 
The Participants to the Arrangement currently are: Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, Korea, New 
Zealand, Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. Other OECD Members and non- 
members may be invited to become Participants by the current Participants. 
4. 
INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO NON-PARTICIPANTS 
a) The Participants undertake to share information with non-Participants on notifications related to official support 
as set out in Article 5 a). 
b) A Participant shall, on the basis of reciprocity, reply to a request from a non-Participant in a competitive 
situation on the financial terms and conditions offered for its official support, as it would reply to a request 
from a Participant. 
5. 
SCOPE OF APPLICATION 
The Arrangement shall apply to all official support provided by or on behalf of a government for export of goods 
and/or services, including financial leases, which have a repayment term of two years or more. 
a) Official support may be provided in different forms: 
1) Export credit guarantee or insurance (pure cover). 
2) Official financing support: 
— direct credit/financing and refinancing, or 
— interest rate support. 
3) Any combination of the above. 
b) The Arrangement shall apply to tied aid; the procedures set out in Chapter IV shall also apply to trade-related 
untied aid. 
c) The Arrangement does not apply to exports of military equipment and agricultural commodities. 
d) Official support shall not be provided if there is clear evidence that the contract has been structured with a 
purchaser in a country which is not the final destination of the goods, primarily with the aim of obtaining more 
favourable repayment terms.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/3 
( 1 ) As defined in Article 5 of the OECD Convention.

 
6. 
PROHIBITIONS ON ARRANGEMENT SUPPORT 
Participants shall not provide officially supported export credits or tied aid for: 
a) The export of new coal-fired electricity generation plants or parts thereof, comprising all components, 
equipment, materials and services (including the training of personnel) directly required for the construction 
and commissioning of such power stations. The addition of a new coal-fired electricity generation unit to an 
existing plant is deemed to be a new coal-fired electricity generation plant. 
b) The export supply of equipment to existing coal-fired electricity generation plants, unless all the following 
conditions are met: 
i. The purpose of the equipment supplied is air pollution abatement, water pollution abatement, or CO 2 
emissions abatement. 
ii. The equipment supplied induces neither an extension of the useful lifetime of the plant nor a capacity 
increase. 
c) The prohibitions set out in paragraphs a) and b) above do not apply to coal-fired electricity generation plants 
that operate with effective carbon capture utilisation and storage (CCUS) facilities or the retrofitting of existing 
coal-fired electricity generation plants to install CCUS, as provided for under Project Class A of Appendix II to 
Annex IV. 
d) Participants agree to undertake a review, upon request by a Participant, of non-CCUS CO 2 emission abatement 
technologies which may be developed in the future, for purposes of exceptions from paragraphs a) and b) 
above. The inclusion of any future exception shall be based on a consensus decision by the Participants. 
e) This Article shall be reviewed no later than 31 December 2022, in order to contribute to the common goal of 
addressing climate change, taking into account: 
i. The most recent reports on climate science and the implications for global infrastructure investment 
decisions of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius 
above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1,5 degrees Celsius 
above pre-industrial levels; 
ii. Officially supported export credits or tied aid support to other coal-related projects; 
iii. Availability of CCUS technology; and 
iv. Availability of non-CCUS CO 2 abatement technologies. 
7. 
SECTOR UNDERSTANDINGS 
a) The following Sector Understandings are part of the Arrangement: 
— Ships (Annex I) 
— Nuclear Power Plants (Annex II) 
— Civil Aircraft (Annex III) 
— Renewable Energy, Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation, and Water Projects (Annex IV) 
— Rail Infrastructure (Annex V) 
b) A Participant to either Annex I, II, IV or V may apply the respective provisions for official support for export of 
goods and/or services covered by the relevant Sector Understandings. Where a Sector Understanding does not 
include a corresponding provision to that of the Arrangement, a Participant to that Sector Understanding shall 
apply the provision of the Arrangement. 
c) For the export of goods and/or services covered by Annex III, the Participants that are also Participants to that 
Sector Understanding shall apply the provisions of that Sector Understanding.
EN 
L 38/4 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
8. 
PROJECT FINANCE 
a) The Participants may apply the terms and conditions set out in Annex VI to the export of goods and/or services 
for transactions that meet the criteria set out in Appendix 1 of Annex VI. 
b) Paragraph a) above applies to the export of goods and services covered by the Sector Understanding on Export 
Credits for Nuclear Power Plants, the Sector Understanding on Export Credits for Renewable Energy, Climate 
Change Mitigation and Adaptation, and Water Projects, and the Sector Understanding on Export Credits for Rail 
Infrastructure. 
c) Paragraph a) above does not apply to the export of goods and services covered by the Sector Understanding on 
Export Credits for Civil Aircraft or the Sector Understanding on Export Credits for Ships. 
9. 
WITHDRAWAL 
A Participant may withdraw by notifying the Secretariat in writing by means of instant communication, e.g. using 
the electronic mail system that is maintained by the Secretariat to facilitate communications amongst Participants 
and the Secretariat. The withdrawal takes effect 180 calendar days after receipt of the notification by the Secretariat. 
10. MONITORING 
The Secretariat shall monitor the implementation of the Arrangement. 
CHAPTER II 
Financial terms and conditions for export credits 
Financial terms and conditions for export credits encompass all the provisions set out in this Chapter which shall be 
read in conjunction one with the other. The Arrangement sets out limitations on terms and conditions that may be 
officially supported. The Participants recognise that more restrictive financial terms and conditions than those provided 
for by the Arrangement traditionally apply to certain trade or industrial sectors. The Participants shall continue to 
respect such customary financial terms and conditions, in particular the principle by which repayment terms do not 
exceed the useful life of the goods. 
11. CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTRIES FOR MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS AND LOCAL COSTS SUPPORT 
a) Category I countries are High Income ( 2 ) OECD countries. All other countries are in Category II. 
b) The following operational criteria and procedures apply when classifying countries: 
1) Classification for Arrangement purposes is determined by per capita GNI as calculated by the World Bank for 
the purposes of the World Bank classification of borrowing countries. 
2) In cases where the World Bank does not have enough information to publish per capita GNI data, the World 
Bank shall be asked to estimate whether the country in question has per capita GNI above or below the 
current threshold. The country shall be classified according to the estimate unless the Participants decide to 
act otherwise. 
3) If a country is reclassified in accordance with Article 11 a), the reclassification will take effect two weeks after 
the conclusions drawn from the abovementioned data from the World Bank have been communicated to all 
Participants by the Secretariat. 
4) In cases where the World Bank revises figures, such revisions shall be disregarded in relation to the 
Arrangement. Nevertheless, the classification of a country may be changed by way of a Common Line 
and Participants would favourably consider a change due to errors and omissions in the figures subsequently 
recognised in the same calendar year in which the figures were first distributed by the Secretariat. 
c) A country will change category only after its World Bank category has remained unchanged for two consecutive 
years.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/5 
( 2 ) Defined by the World Bank on an annual basis according to per capita GNI.

 
12. DOWN PAYMENT, MAXIMUM OFFICIAL SUPPORT AND LOCAL COSTS 
a) The Participants shall require purchasers of goods and services, which are the subject of official support, to make 
down payments of a minimum of 15 % of the export contract value at or before the starting point of credit as 
defined in Annex XIV. For the assessment of down payments, the export contract value may be reduced 
proportionally if the transaction includes goods and services from a third country which are not officially 
supported. Financing/insurance of 100 % of the premium is permissible. Premium may or may not be 
included in the export contract value. Retention payments made after the starting point of credit are not 
regarded as down payment in this context. 
b) Official support for such down payments shall only take the form of insurance or guarantee against the usual 
pre-credit risks. 
c) Except as provided for in paragraphs b) and d), the Participants shall not provide official support in excess of 
85 % of the export contract value, including third country supply but excluding local costs. 
d) The Participants may provide official support for local costs, under the following conditions: 
1) The maximum amount of official support for local costs shall not exceed: 
— For Category I countries, 40 % of the export contract value. 
— For category II countries, 50 % of the export contract value. 
2) Official support for local costs shall not be provided on terms more favourable/less restrictive than those 
agreed for the related exports. 
3) Where official support for local costs exceeds 15 % of the export contract value, such official support shall be 
subject to prior notification, pursuant to Article 46, specifying the nature of the local costs being supported. 
13. MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS 
Without prejudice to Article 14, the maximum repayment term varies according to the classification of the country 
of destination determined by the criteria in Article 11. 
a) For Category I countries, the maximum repayment term is eight-and-a-half years. 
b) For Category II countries, the maximum repayment term is 10 years. 
c) In the event of a contract involving more than one country of destination the Participants should seek to 
establish a Common Line in accordance with the procedures in Articles 56 to 61 to reach agreement on 
appropriate terms. 
14. REPAYMENT TERMS FOR NON-NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS 
a) For non-nuclear power plants, the maximum repayment term shall be 12 years. If a Participant intends to 
support a repayment term longer than that provided for in Article 13, the Participant shall give prior notification 
in accordance with the procedure in Article 46. 
b) Non-nuclear power plants are complete power stations, or parts thereof, not fuelled by nuclear power; they 
include all components, equipment, materials and services (including the training of personnel) directly required 
for the construction and commissioning of such non-nuclear power stations. This does not include items for 
which the buyer is usually responsible, in particular costs associated with land development, roads, construction 
villages, power lines, and switchyard and water supply located outside the power plant site boundary, as well as 
costs arising in the buyer’s country from official approval procedures (e.g. site permits, construction permit, fuel 
loading permits), except: 
1) in cases where the buyer of the switchyard is the same as the buyer of the power plant, the maximum 
repayment term for the original switchyard shall be the same as that for the non-nuclear power plant 
(i.e. 12 years); and
EN 
L 38/6 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
2) the maximum repayment term for sub-stations, transformers and transmission lines with a minimum voltage 
threshold of 100 kV shall be the same as that for the non-nuclear power plant. 
15. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST 
a) The principal sum of an export credit shall normally be repaid in equal instalments or, when appropriate 
(e.g. when support is provided for lease transactions or for the export of stand-alone machinery or equipment), 
equal repayments of principal and interest combined. 
b) Principal shall be repaid and interest shall be paid no less frequently than every six months and the first 
instalment of principal and interest shall be made no later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
c) On an exceptional and duly justified basis, export credits may be provided on terms other than those set out in 
paragraphs a) and b) above. The provision of such support shall be explained by an imbalance in the timing of 
the funds available to the obligor and the debt service profile available under an equal, semi-annual repayment 
schedule, and shall comply with the following criteria: 
1) No single repayment of principal or series of principal payments within a six-month period shall exceed 25 % 
of the principal sum of the credit. 
2) Principal shall be repaid no less frequently than every 12 months. The first repayment of principal shall be 
made no later than 12 months after the starting point of credit and no less than 2 % of the principal sum of 
the credit shall have been repaid 12 months after the starting point of credit. 
3) Interest shall be paid no less frequently than every 12 months and the first interest payment shall be made no 
later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
4) The maximum weighted average life of the repayment period shall not exceed: 
— For transactions with sovereign buyers (or with a sovereign repayment guarantee), four and-a-half years 
for transactions in Category I Countries and five-and-a-quarter years for Category II Countries. 
— For transactions with non-sovereign buyers (and with no sovereign repayment guarantee), five years for 
Category I Countries and six years for Category II Countries. 
— Notwithstanding the provisions set out in the two previous tirets, for transactions involving support for 
non-nuclear power plants according to Article 14, six and a quarter years. 
5) The Participant shall give prior notification in accordance with Article 46 that explains the reason for not 
providing support according to paragraphs a) through b) above. 
d) Interest due after the starting point of credit shall not be capitalised. 
16. INTEREST RATES, PREMIUM RATES AND OTHER FEES 
a) Interest excludes: 
1) any payment by way of premium or other charge for insuring or guaranteeing supplier credits or financial 
credits; 
2) any payment by way of banking fees or commissions relating to the export credit other than annual or semi- 
annual bank charges that are payable throughout the repayment period; and 
3) withholding taxes imposed by the importing country. 
b) Where official support is provided by means of direct credits/financing or refinancing, the premium either may 
be added to the face value of the interest rate or may be a separate charge; both components are to be specified 
separately to the Participants. 
17. VALIDITY PERIOD FOR EXPORT CREDITS 
Financial terms and conditions for an individual export credit or line of credit, other than the validity period for the 
Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) set out in Annex XV, shall not be fixed for a period exceeding six 
months prior to final commitment.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/7

 
18. ACTION TO AVOID OR MINIMISE LOSSES 
The Arrangement does not prevent export credit authorities or financing institutions from agreeing to less 
restrictive financial terms and conditions than those provided for by the Arrangement, if such action is taken 
after the contract award (when the export credit agreement and ancillary documents have already become effective) 
and is intended solely to avoid or minimise losses from events which could give rise to non-payment or claims. 
19. MATCHING 
Taking into account a Participant’s international obligations and consistent with the purpose of the Arrangement, a 
Participant may match, according to the procedures set out in Article 43, financial terms and conditions offered by 
a Participant or a non-Participant. Financial terms and conditions provided in accordance with this Article are 
considered to be in conformity with the provisions of Chapters I, II and, when applicable, Annexes I, II, III, IV, V 
and VI. 
20. MINIMUM FIXED INTEREST RATES UNDER OFFICIAL FINANCING SUPPORT 
a) The Participants providing official financing support for fixed rate loans shall apply the relevant CIRRs as 
minimum interest rates. CIRRs are interest rates established according to the following principles: 
1) CIRRs should represent final commercial lending interest rates in the domestic market of the currency 
concerned; 
2) CIRRs should closely correspond to the rate for first class domestic borrowers; 
3) CIRRs should be based on the funding cost of fixed interest rate finance; 
4) CIRRs should not distort domestic competitive conditions; and 
5) CIRRs should closely correspond to a rate available to first class foreign borrowers. 
b) The provision of official financing support shall not offset or compensate, in part or in full, for the appropriate 
credit risk premium to be charged for the risk of non-repayment pursuant to the provisions of Article 22. 
21. CONSTRUCTION AND APPLICATION OF CIRRs 
The CIRR for official financing support provided under the Arrangement and all of its Annexes other than the 
Sector Understanding on Export Credits for Civil Aircraft (Annex III) is determined and applied according to the 
provisions of Annex XV. 
22. PREMIUM FOR CREDIT RISK 
The Participants shall charge premium, in addition to interest charges, to cover the risk of non-repayment of export 
credits. The premium rates charged by the Participants shall be risk-based, shall converge and shall not be 
inadequate to cover long-term operating costs and losses. 
23. MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES FOR CREDIT RISK 
The Participants shall charge no less than the applicable Minimum Premium Rate (MPR) for Credit Risk. 
a) The applicable MPR is determined according to the following factors: 
— the applicable country risk classification; 
— the time at risk (i.e. the Horizon of Risk or HOR); 
— the selected buyer risk category of the obligor; 
— the percentage of political and commercial risk cover and quality of official export credit product provided; 
— any country risk mitigation technique applied; and 
— any buyer risk credit enhancements that have been applied.
EN 
L 38/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
b) MPRs are expressed in percentages of the principal value of the credit as if premium were collected in full at the 
date of the first drawdown of the credit. An explanation of how to calculate the MPRs, including the math­
ematical formula, is provided in Annex VIII. 
c) Irrespective of the destination country, the premium rates charged by Participants for Market Benchmark 
Transactions, i.e. transactions involving ultimate obligors/guarantors (i.e. credit risk entities) in Category 0 
Countries, High Income OECD Countries and High Income Euro Area Countries ( 3 ), or involving a multilateral 
or regional institution that the Participants agree is generally exempt from the monetary control and transfer 
regulations of the country in which it is located ( 4 ) shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. In order to 
ensure that the premium rates charged for transactions involving obligors, and where appropriate guarantors, in 
such countries do not undercut private market pricing, the Participants shall adhere to the following procedures, 
using agreed conventions to translate the relevant benchmark pricing into premium rates: 
1) Where a Participant provides official support as part of a syndicated loan package that is structured as either 
an asset-backed ( 5 ) or project finance ( 6 ) transaction, then: 
— the all-in cost of the direct lending portion shall be no less than the all-in cost charged by the 
commercial market participant(s) in the syndicate; 
— the premium charged for pure cover shall be no less than the translated equivalent premium rate charged 
by the commercial market participant(s) and no less than the applicable Minimum Actuarial Premium 
rate. 
To qualify as a syndicated loan package, all of the following conditions must be met: 
— At least 25 % ( 7 ) of the syndicate is commercial market loan(s)/guarantee(s), without any bilateral or 
multilateral support (e.g., ECA, DFI, IFI or MDB) ( 8 ), where all parties to the financing are on pari passu 
terms on all financial terms and conditions, including security package; and 
— The transaction financial terms and conditions are fully compliant with the Arrangement, as modified by 
these provisions of Market Benchmark pricing in syndicated loans/guarantees transactions. 
2) For all other Market Benchmark Transactions, the following procedures shall apply: 
— Taking into consideration the availability of market information and the characteristics of the underlying 
transaction, Participants shall determine the premium rate to be applied by benchmarking against one or 
more of the market benchmarks set forth in Annex X, choosing the benchmark(s) deemed most appro­
priate for the specific transaction.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/9 
( 3 ) The status of a country in terms of: (1) whether it is a High Income country (as defined by the World Bank on an annual basis 
according to per capita GNI); (2) membership in the OECD; and (3) whether it is part of the Euro Area is reviewed on an annual 
basis. The designation of a country under Article 23 c) as a High Income OECD country or a High Income Euro Area country as 
well as the removal of such designation will only come into effect after the country’s income classification (High Income or 
otherwise) has remained unchanged for two consecutive years. A change in a country’s designation as a High Income OECD 
country or a High Income Euro Area country as well as the removal of such designation related to a change in OECD membership 
or being part of the Euro Area will come into effect immediately at the time of the annual review of countries’ status. 
( 4 ) The assessment of whether or not a Multilateral or Regional Institution is generally exempt from the monetary control and transfer 
regulations of the country in which it is located shall be made based on the criteria set out in Annex X. The Participants shall 
maintain a list of the institutions deemed as meeting the critteria and, therefore, subject to the premium rates for Market Benchmark 
Transactions. 
( 5 ) To qualify as an asset-backed transaction, there must be a first priority security interest on the asset being financed; and, in the case 
of a lease structure, assignment and/or a first priority security interest in connection with the lease payments. 
( 6 ) To qualify as a project finance transaction, the transaction must meet the Basic Criteria set forth in Appendix 1 to Annex VI of the 
Arrangement. 
( 7 ) Notwithstanding this threshold, for transactions in Market Benchmark countries using terms and conditions provided under 
Annex V (rail) or Annex VI (project finance), the relevant minimum commercial loan participation rules applicable under those 
Annexes shall apply. 
( 8 ) This portion of the 25 % criterion may be met where the non-cash payment portion of a transaction involving a single bank 
receiving ECA cover includes an uncovered portion of at least 25 %. Such transactions must meet all of the other criteria of 
subparagraph 1, including the pari passu provisions of this tiret.

 
— Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, Participants may not charge a premium rate that is lower than 
the corresponding premium determined by the Through the Cycle Market Benchmark (TCMB) model, 
based on the risk classification and total term (WAL of the whole transaction) of the transaction unless 
the market benchmark is derived from a Name-Specific or Related Entity (i) secondary market bond; or 
(ii) Credit Default Swap (CDS). A Participant charging a premium rate lower than the corresponding 
premium determined by the TCMB model, based on the Accredited Credit Rating Agency ( 9 ) (CRA) rating 
of the Name-Specific market benchmark ( 10 ) shall give prior notification in accordance with Article 46. 
However, the premium charged may not be less than the corresponding Minimum Actuarial Premium. 
— In determining the premium rate, a Participant shall determine a risk rating for the ultimate obligor/ 
guarantor, including whether the obligor/guarantor is rated by an Accredited CRA. A Participant may set 
a rating one notch better (on the Accredited CRA’s scale) than that provided by an Accredited CRA. If 
there is no Accredited CRA rating, the risk classification may not exceed (be more favourable than) the 
CRA rating of the sovereign in the obligor/guarantor ’s domicile by more than two notches. Participants 
must give prior notification in accordance with Article 46 in the following scenarios: 
— Where a Participant classifies the obligor/guarantor as better than the best rating from an Accredited 
CRA, or 
— If there is no Accredited CRA rating, where a Participant classifies a transaction as CC2 or better, or a 
credit rating letter equivalent to AAA to A-, or equal to or more favourable than the best Accredited 
CRA rating of the sovereign in the obligor’s/guarantor’s domicile. 
d) The “highest risk” countries in Category 7 shall, in principle, be subject to premium rates in excess of the MPRs 
established for that Category; these premium rates shall be determined by the Participant providing official 
support. 
e) In calculating the MPR for a transaction, the applicable country risk classification shall be the classification of 
the obligor’s country and the applicable buyer risk classification shall be the classification of the obligor ( 11 ), 
unless security in the form of an irrevocable, unconditional, on-demand, legally valid and enforceable guarantee 
of the total debt repayment obligation for the entire duration of the credit is provided by a third party that is 
creditworthy in relation to the size of the guaranteed debt. In the case of a third party guarantee, a Participant 
may choose to apply the country risk classification of the country in which the guarantor is located and the 
buyer risk category of the guarantor ( 12 ). 
f) The criteria and conditions relating to the application of a third party guarantee according to the situations 
described in the first and second tirets of paragraph e) above are set out in Annex X. 
g) The HOR convention used in the calculation of an MPR is one-half of the disbursement period plus the entire 
repayment period and assumes a regular export credit repayment profile, i.e. repayment in equal semi-annual 
instalments of principal plus accrued interest beginning six months after the starting point of credit. For export 
credits with non-standard repayment profiles, the equivalent repayment period (expressed in terms of equal, 
semi-annual instalments) is calculated using the following formula: equivalent repayment period = (average 
weighted life of the repayment period ‒ 0,25)/0,5. 
h) The Participant choosing to apply an MPR associated with a third party guarantor located in a country other 
than that of the obligor shall give prior notification according to Article 45.
EN 
L 38/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 9 ) Where the obligor/guarantor is rated by more than one Accredited CRA, the CRA rating is the best available foreign currency 
rating on a senior unsecured basis for the obligor (or guarantor). The Secretariat shall compile and maintain a list of such 
accredited CRAs. 
( 10 ) In the event that a relevant Name-Specific market pricing entity is not rated by an Accredited CRA, then the resulting market 
pricing shall be considered to be below the corresponding TCMB rate and be subject to prior notification in accordance with 
Article 46. 
( 11 ) The premium rates charged for transactions with a third party guarantee provided by an obligor in a Category 0 country, High 
Income OECD country, High Income Euro Area country, or by a multilateral or regional institution deemed as meeting the criteria 
set out in Annex X are subject to the requirements set out in Article 23 c). 
( 12 ) In the case of a third party guarantee, the applicable country risk classification and buyer risk category must be related to the same 
entity, i.e. either the obligor or the guarantor.

 
24. COUNTRY RISK CLASSIFICATION 
With the exception of High Income OECD countries and High Income Euro Area countries, countries shall be 
classified according to the likelihood of whether they will service their external debts (i.e. country credit risk). 
a) The five elements of country credit risk are: 
— general moratorium on repayments decreed by the obligor’s/guarantor’s government or by that agency of a 
country through which repayment is effected; 
— political events and/or economic difficulties arising outside the country of the notifying Participant or 
legislative/administrative measures taken outside the country of the notifying Participant which prevent or 
delay the transfer of funds paid in respect of the credit; 
— legal provisions adopted in the obligor’s/guarantor’s country declaring repayments made in local currency to 
be a valid discharge of the debt, notwithstanding that, as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates, such 
repayments, when converted into the currency of the credit, no longer cover the amount of the debt at the 
date of the transfer of funds; 
— any other measure or decision of the government of a foreign country which prevents repayment under a 
credit; and 
— cases of force majeure occurring outside the country of the notifying Participant, i.e. war (including civil war), 
expropriation, revolution, riot, civil disturbances, cyclones, floods, earthquakes, eruptions, tidal waves and 
nuclear accidents. 
b) Countries are classified into one of eight Country Risk Categories (0–7). MPRs have been established for 
Categories 1 through 7, but not for Category 0, as the level of country risk is considered to be negligible 
for countries in this Category. The credit risk associated with transactions in Category 0 countries is predomi­
nantly related to the risk of the obligor/guarantor. 
c) The classification of countries ( 13 ) is achieved through the Country Risk Classification Methodology, which is 
comprised of: 
— The Country Risk Assessment Model (the Model), which produces a quantitative assessment of country credit 
risk which is based, for each country, on three groups of risk indicators: the payment experience of the 
Participants, the financial situation and the economic situation. The methodology of the Model consists of 
different steps including the assessment of the three groups of risk indicators, and the combination and 
flexible weighting of the risk indicator groups. 
— The qualitative assessment of the Model results, considered country-by-country to integrate the political risk 
and/or other risk factors not taken into account in full or in part by the Model. If appropriate, this may lead 
to an adjustment to the quantitative Model assessment to reflect the final assessment of the country credit 
risk. 
d) Country Risk Classifications shall be monitored on an ongoing basis and reviewed at least annually and changes 
resulting from the Country Risk Classification Methodology shall be immediately communicated by the Secre­
tariat. When a country is re-classified in a lower or higher Country Risk Category, the Participants shall, no later 
than five working days after the re classification has been communicated by the Secretariat, charge premium 
rates at or above the MPRs associated with the new Country Risk Category. 
e) The country risk classifications shall be made public by the Secretariat. 
25. SOVEREIGN RISK ASSESSMENT 
a) For all countries classified through the Country Risk Classification Methodology according to Article 24 d), the 
risk of the sovereign shall be assessed in order to identify, on an exceptional basis, those sovereigns: 
— that are not the lowest-risk obligor in the country, and 
— whose credit risk is significantly higher than country risk.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/11 
( 13 ) For administrative purposes, some countries that are eligible to be classified into one of the eight Country Risk Categories may not 
be classified if they do not generally receive officially supported export credits. For such non-classified countries, Participants are 
free to apply the country risk classification which they deem appropriate.

 
b) The identification of sovereigns meeting the criteria listed in paragraph a) above shall be undertaken according to 
the Sovereign Risk Assessment Methodology that has been developed and agreed by the Participants. 
c) The list of sovereigns identified as meeting the criteria listed in paragraph a) above shall be monitored on an 
ongoing basis and reviewed at least annually and changes resulting from the Sovereign Risk Assessment 
Methodology shall be immediately communicated by the Secretariat. 
d) The list of sovereigns identified under paragraph b) above shall be made public by the Secretariat. 
26. BUYER RISK CLASSIFICATION 
Obligors and, as appropriate, guarantors in countries classified in Country Risk Categories 1–7 shall be classified 
into one of the buyer risk categories that have been established in relation to the country of the obligor/ 
guarantor ( 14 ). The matrix of buyer risk categories into which obligors and guarantors shall be classified is 
provided in Annex VIII. Qualitative descriptions of the buyer risk categories are provided in Annex XI. 
a) Buyer-risk classifications shall be based on the senior unsecured credit rating of the obligor/guarantor as 
determined by the Participant. 
b) Notwithstanding paragraph a) above, transactions supported according to the terms and conditions of Annex VI 
and transactions having a credit value of SDR 5 million or less may be classified on a transaction basis, i.e. after 
the application of any buyer risk credit enhancements; however, such transactions, regardless of how they are 
classified, are not eligible for any discounts for the application of buyer risk credit enhancements. 
c) Sovereign obligors and guarantors are classified in buyer risk category SOV/CC0. 
d) On an exceptional basis, non-sovereign obligors and guarantors may be classified in the “Better than Sovereign” 
(SOV+) buyer risk category if ( 15 ): 
— the obligor/guarantor has a foreign currency rating from an Accredited CRA that is better than the foreign 
currency rating (from the same CRA) of their respective sovereign, or 
— the obligor/guarantor ’s is located in a country in which sovereign risk has been identified as being signifi­
cantly higher than country risk. 
e) The Participants shall give prior notification according to Article 46 for transactions: 
— with a non-sovereign obligor/guarantor where the premium charged is below that set by Buyer Risk 
Category CC1, i.e. CC0 or SOV+; 
— with a non-sovereign obligor/guarantor where a Participant assesses a buyer risk rating for a non-sovereign 
obligor/guarantor that is rated by an Accredited CRA, and the buyer risk rating assessed is better than the 
Accredited CRA rating ( 16 ). 
f) In the event of competition for a specific transaction, whereby the obligor/guarantor has been classified by 
competing Participants in different buyer risk categories, the competing Participants shall seek to arrive at a 
common buyer risk classification. If agreement on a common classification is not reached, the Participant(s) 
having classified the obligor/guarantor in a higher buyer risk classification are not prohibited from applying the 
lower buyer risk classification.
EN 
L 38/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 14 ) Rules related to the classification of buyers should be understood to stipulate the most favourable classification that can be applied, 
e.g. a sovereign buyer may be classified in a less favourable buyer risk classification. 
( 15 ) The MPRs associated with the Better than Sovereign (SOV+) buyer risk category are 10 % lower than the MPRs associated with the 
Sovereign (CC0) buyer risk category. 
( 16 ) Where the non-sovereign borrower is rated by more than one accredited CRA, notification is only required where the buyer risk 
rating is more favourable than the most favourable of the CRA ratings.

 
27. PERCENTAGE AND QUALITY OF OFFICIAL EXPORT CREDIT COVER 
The MPRs are differentiated to take account of the differing quality of export credit products and percentage of 
cover provided by the Participants as set out in Annex VIII. The differentiation is based on the exporter’s perspective 
(i.e. to neutralise the competitive effect arising from the differing qualities of product provided to the exporter/ 
financial institution). 
a) The quality of an export credit product is a function of whether the product is insurance, guarantee or direct 
credit/financing, and for insurance products whether cover of interest during the claims waiting period (i.e. the 
period between the due date of payment by the obligor and the date that the insurer is liable to reimburse the 
exporter/financial institution) is provided without a surcharge. 
b) All existing export credit products offered by the Participants shall be classified into one of the three product 
categories which are: 
— Below standard product, i.e. insurance without cover of interest during the claims waiting period and 
insurance with cover of interest during the claims waiting period with an appropriate premium surcharge; 
— Standard product, i.e. insurance with cover of interest during the claims waiting period without an appro­
priate premium surcharge and direct credit/financing; and 
— Above standard product, i.e. guarantees. 
28. COUNTRY RISK MITIGATION TECHNIQUES 
a) The Participants may apply the following country risk mitigation techniques, the specific application of which is 
set out in Annex XII: 
— Offshore Future Flow Structure Combined with Offshore Escrow Account 
— Local Currency Financing 
b) The Participant applying an MPR reflecting the use of country risk mitigation shall give prior notification 
according to Article 45. 
c) No country risk mitigation shall be applied to Market Benchmark transactions. 
29. BUYER RISK CREDIT ENHANCEMENTS 
a) The Participants may apply the following buyer risk credit enhancements (BRCE) which allow for the application 
of a Credit Enhancement Factor (CEF) greater than 0: 
— Assignment of Contract Proceeds or Receivables 
— Asset Based Security 
— Fixed Asset Security 
— Escrow Account 
b) Definitions of the BRCE and maximum CEF values for both Category 1–7 obligors as well as Market Benchmark 
obligors are set out in Annex XII. 
c) BRCEs may be used alone or in combination with the following restrictions: 
— The maximum CEF that can be achieved through the use of the BRCEs is 0,35 for Category 1–7 transactions. 
For Market Benchmark transactions, a maximum discount of 25 % may be applied to the Market Benchmark 
MPR, but the premium charged may not be lower than the applicable Minimum Actuarial Premium rate. 
— “Asset Based Security” and “Fixed Asset Security” cannot be used together in one transaction. 
— In a Category 1–7 transaction where the applicable country risk classification has been improved through the 
use of “Offshore Future Flow Structure Combined with Offshore Escrow Account”, no BRCEs may be applied. 
d) The Participants shall give prior notification according to Article 45 for transactions with a non-sovereign 
obligor/guarantor where BRCEs result in the application of a CEF of greater than 0, or whenever BRCEs are 
used in a Market Benchmark transaction that result in pricing below the corresponding TCMB MPR.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/13

 
30. REVIEW OF THE VALIDITY OF THE MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES FOR CREDIT RISK 
a) To assess the adequacy of MPRs and to allow, if necessary, for adjustments, either upwards or downwards, 
Premium Feedback Tools (PFTs), shall be used in parallel to monitor and adjust the MPRs on a regular basis. 
b) The PFTs shall assess the adequacy of the MPRs in terms of both the actual experience of institutions providing 
official export credits as well as private market information on the pricing of credit risk. 
c) A comprehensive review of all aspects of the premium rules of the Arrangement, with a special emphasis on the 
Market Benchmark Pricing Rules, shall take place no later than 31 December 2019 ( 17 ). 
CHAPTER III 
Provisions for tied aid 
31. GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
a) The Participants have agreed to have complementary policies for export credits and tied aid. Export credit 
policies should be based on open competition and the free play of market forces. Tied aid policies should 
provide needed external resources to countries, sectors or projects with little or no access to market financing. 
Tied aid policies should ensure best value for money, minimise trade distortion, and contribute to devel­
opmentally effective use of these resources. 
b) The tied aid provisions of the Arrangement do not apply to the aid programmes of multilateral or regional 
institutions. 
c) These principles do not prejudge the views of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) on the quality of 
tied and untied aid. 
d) A Participant may request additional information relevant to the tying status of any form of aid. If there is 
uncertainty as to whether a certain financing practice falls within the scope of the definition of tied aid set out in 
Annex XIV, the donor country shall furnish evidence in support of any claim to the effect that the aid is in fact 
“untied” in accordance with the definition in Annex XIV. 
32. FORMS OF TIED AID 
Tied aid can take the form of: 
a) Official Development Assistance (ODA) loans as defined in the “DAC Guiding Principles for Associated 
Financing and Tied and Partially Untied Official Development Assistance (1987)”; 
b) ODA grants as defined in the “DAC Guiding Principles for Associated Financing and Tied and Partially Untied 
Official Development Assistance (1987)”; and 
c) Other Official Flows (OOF), which includes grants and loans but excludes officially supported export credits that 
are in conformity with the Arrangement; or 
d) Any association, e.g. mixture, in law or in fact, within the control of the donor, the lender or the borrower 
involving two or more of the preceding, and/or the following financing components: 
1) an export credit that is officially supported by way of direct credit/financing, refinancing, interest rate 
support, guarantee or insurance to which the Arrangement applies; and 
2) other funds at or near market terms, or down payment from the purchaser.
EN 
L 38/14 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 17 ) The review is ongoing.

 
33. ASSOCIATED FINANCING 
a) Associated financing may take various forms including mixed credits, mixed financing, joint financing, parallel 
financing or single integrated transactions. The main characteristics are that they all feature: 
— a concessional component that is linked in law or in fact to the non-concessional component; 
— either a single part or all of the financing package that is, in effect, tied aid; and 
— concessional funds those are available only if the linked non-concessional component is accepted by the 
recipient. 
b) Association or linkage “in fact” is determined by such factors as: 
— the existence of informal understandings between the recipient and the donor authorities; 
— the intention by the donor to facilitate the acceptability of a financing package through the use of ODA; 
— the effective tying of the whole financing package to procurement in the donor country; 
— the tying status of ODA and the means of tendering for or contracting of each financing transaction; or 
— any other practice, identified by the DAC or the Participants in which a de facto liaison exists between two 
or more financing components. 
c) The following practices shall not prevent the determination of an association or linkage “in fact”: 
— contract splitting through the separate notification of the component parts of one contract; 
— splitting of contracts financed in several stages; 
— non-notification of interdependent parts of a contract; and/or 
— non-notification because part of the financing package is untied. 
34. COUNTRY ELIGIBILITY FOR TIED AID 
a) There shall be no tied aid to countries whose per capita GNI, according to the World Bank data, is above the 
upper limit for lower middle income countries. The World Bank recalculates this threshold on an annual 
basis ( 18 ). A country will be reclassified only after its World Bank category has been unchanged for two 
consecutive years. 
b) The following operational criteria and procedures apply when classifying countries: 
1) Classification for Arrangement purposes is determined by per capita GNI as calculated by the World Bank for 
the purposes of the World Bank classification of borrowing countries; this classification shall be made public 
by the Secretariat. 
2) In cases where the World Bank does not have enough information to publish per capita GNI data, the World 
Bank shall be asked to estimate whether the country in question has per capita GNI above or below the 
current threshold. The country shall be classified according to the estimate unless the Participants decide to 
act otherwise. 
3) If a country’s eligibility for tied aid does change in accordance with paragraph a) above, the reclassification 
shall take effect two weeks after the conclusions drawn from the above mentioned World Bank data have 
been communicated to all Participants by the Secretariat. Before the effective date of reclassification, no tied 
aid financing for a newly eligible country may be notified; after that date, no tied aid financing for a newly 
promoted country may be notified, except that individual transactions covered under a prior committed 
credit line may be notified until the expiry of the credit line (which shall be no more than one year from the 
effective date).
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/15 
( 18 ) Based on the annual review by the World Bank of its country classification, a per capita Gross National Income (GNI) threshold 
will be used for the purpose of tied aid eligibility; such threshold is available on the OECD website (https://www.oecd.org/trade/ 
topics/export-credits/arrangement-and-sector-understandings/financing-terms-and-conditions/).

 
4) In cases where the World Bank revises figures such revisions shall be disregarded in relation to the 
Arrangement. Nevertheless, the classification of a country may be changed by way of a Common Line, in 
accordance with the appropriate procedures in Articles 56 to 61, and the Participants would favourably 
consider a change due to errors and omissions in the figures subsequently recognised in the same calendar 
year as the figures that were first distributed by the Secretariat. 
35. PROJECT ELIGIBILITY 
a) Tied aid shall not be extended to public or private projects that normally should be commercially viable if 
financed on market or Arrangement terms. 
b) The key tests for such aid eligibility are: 
— whether the project is financially non-viable, i.e. does the project lack capacity with appropriate pricing 
determined on market principles, to generate cash flow sufficient to cover the project’s operating costs and to 
service the capital employed, i.e. the first key test; or 
— whether it is reasonable to conclude, based on communication with other Participants, that it is unlikely that 
the project can be financed on market or Arrangement terms, i.e. the second key test. In respect of projects 
larger than SDR 50 million special weight shall be given to the expected availability of financing at market or 
Arrangement terms when considering the appropriateness of such aid. 
c) The key tests under paragraph b) above are intended to describe how a project should be evaluated to determine 
whether it should be financed with such aid or with export credits on market or Arrangement terms. Through 
the consultation process described in Articles 49 to 51, a body of experience is expected to develop over time 
that will more precisely define, for both export credit and aid agencies, ex ante guidance as to the line between 
the two categories of projects. 
36. MINIMUM CONCESSIONALITY LEVEL 
The Participants shall not provide tied aid that has a concessionality level of less than 35 %, or 50 % if the 
beneficiary country is a Least Developed Country (LDC), except for the cases set out below, which are also 
exempt from the notification procedures set out in Articles 47 a) and 48 a): 
a) Technical assistance: tied aid where the official development aid component consists solely of technical 
cooperation that is less than either 3 % of the total value of the transaction or SDR 1 million, whichever is 
lower; and 
b) Small projects: capital projects of less than SDR 1 million that are funded entirely by development assistance 
grants. 
37. EXEMPTIONS FROM COUNTRY OR PROJECT ELIGIBILITY FOR TIED AID 
a) The provisions of Articles 34 and 35 do not apply to tied aid where the concessionality level is 80 % or more 
except for tied aid that forms part of an associated financing package, described in Article 33. 
b) The provisions of Article 35 do not apply to tied aid with a value of less than SDR 2 million except for tied aid 
that forms part of an associated financing package, described in Article 33. 
c) Tied aid for LDCs as defined by the United Nations is not subject to the provisions of Articles 34 and 35. 
d) The Participants shall give favourable consideration to an acceleration of tied aid procedures in line with the 
specific circumstances: 
— a nuclear or major industrial accident that causes serious transfrontier pollution, where any affected 
Participant wishes to provide tied aid to eliminate or mitigate its effects, or 
— the existence of a significant risk that such an accident may occur, where any potentially affected Participant 
wishes to provide tied aid to prevent its occurrence.
EN 
L 38/16 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
e) Notwithstanding Articles 34 and 35, a Participant may, exceptionally, provide support by one of the following 
means: 
— the Common Line procedure as defined in Annex XIV and described in Articles 56 to 61; or 
— the justification on aid grounds through support by a substantial body of the Participants as described in 
Articles 49 and 50; or 
— a letter to the OECD Secretary-General, in accordance with the procedures in Article 51, which the 
Participants expect will be unusual and infrequent. 
38. CALCULATION OF CONCESSIONALITY LEVEL OF TIED AID 
The concessionality level of tied aid is calculated using the same method as for the grant element used by the DAC, 
except that: 
a) The discount rate used to calculate the concessionality level of a loan in a given currency, i.e. the Differentiated 
Discount Rate (DDR), is subject to annual change on 15 January and is calculated as follows: 
— The average of the CIRR + Margin 
Margin (M) depends on the repayment term (R) as follows: 
R 
M 
less than 15 years 
0,75 
from 15 years up to, but not including 20 years 
1,00 
from 20 years up to but not including 30 years 
1,15 
from 30 years and above 
1,25 
— For all currencies the average of the CIRR is calculated taking an average of the monthly CIRRs valid during 
the six-month period between 15 August of the previous year and 14 February of the current year, as 
determined according to the provisions of Annex XV. The calculated rate, including the Margin, is rounded 
to the nearest ten basis points. If there is more than one CIRR for the currency, the CIRR for the longest 
maturity as set out in Article 1 of Annex XV, shall be used for this calculation. 
b) The base date for the calculation of the concessionality level is the starting point of credit as set out in 
Annex XIV. 
c) For the purpose of calculating the overall concessionality level of an associated financing package, the conces­
sionality levels of the following credits, funds and payments are considered to be zero: 
— export credits that are in conformity with the Arrangement; 
— other funds at or near market rates; 
— other official funds with a concessionality level of less than the minimum permitted under Article 36 except 
in cases of matching; and 
— down payment from the purchaser. 
Payments on or before the starting point of credit that are not considered down payment shall be included in 
the calculation of the concessionality level. 
d) The discount rate in matching: in matching aid, identical matching means matching with an identical conces­
sionality level that is recalculated with the discount rate in force at the time of matching. 
e) Local costs and third country procurement shall be included in the calculation of concessionality level only if 
they are financed by the donor country.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/17

 
f) The overall concessionality level of a package is determined by multiplying the nominal value of each 
component of the package by the respective concessionality level of each component, adding the results, and 
dividing this total by the aggregate nominal value of the components. 
g) The discount rate for a given aid loan is the rate in effect at the time of notification. However, in cases of 
prompt notification, the discount rate is the one in effect at the time when the terms and conditions of the aid 
loan were fixed. A change in the discount rate during the life of a loan does not change its concessionality level. 
h) If a change of currency is made before the contract is concluded, the notification shall be revised. The discount 
rate used to calculate the concessionality level will be the one applicable at the date of revision. A revision is not 
necessary if the alternative currency and all the necessary information for calculation of the concessionality level 
are indicated in the original notification. 
i) Notwithstanding paragraph g) above, the discount rate used to calculate the concessionality level of individual 
transactions initiated under an aid credit line shall be the rate that was originally notified for the credit line. 
39. VALIDITY PERIOD FOR TIED AID 
a) The Participants shall not fix terms and conditions for tied aid, whether this relates to the financing of individual 
transactions or to an aid protocol, an aid credit line or to a similar agreement, for more than two years. In the 
case of an aid protocol, an aid credit line or similar agreement, the validity period shall commence at the date of 
its signature, to be notified in accordance with Article 48; the extension of a credit line shall be notified as if it 
were a new transaction with a note explaining that it is an extension and that it is renewed at terms allowed at 
the time of the notification of the extension. In the case of individual transactions, including those notified under 
an aid protocol, an aid credit line or similar agreement, the validity period shall commence at the date of 
notification of the commitment in accordance with Article 47 or 48, as appropriate. 
b) When a country has become ineligible for 17-year World Bank Loans for the first time, the validity period of 
existing and new tied aid protocols and credit lines notified shall be restricted to one year after the date of the 
potential reclassification in accordance with procedures in Article 34 b). 
c) Renewal of such protocols and credit lines is possible only on terms which are in accordance with the provisions 
of Articles 34 and 35 of the Arrangement following: 
— the reclassification of countries; and 
— a change in the provisions of the Arrangement. 
In these circumstances, the existing terms and conditions can be maintained notwithstanding a change in the 
discount rate set out in Article 38. 
40. MATCHING 
Taking into account a Participant’s international obligations and consistent with the purpose of the Arrangement, a 
Participant may match, according to the procedures set out in Article 43, financial terms and conditions offered by 
a Participant or a non-Participant. 
CHAPTER IV 
Procedures 
S e c t i o n 1 
C o m m o n p r o c e d u r e s f o r e x p o r t c r e d i t s a n d t r a d e - r e l a t e d a i d 
41. NOTIFICATIONS 
The notifications set out by the procedures in the Arrangement shall be made in accordance with, and include the 
information contained in Annex VII, and shall be copied to the Secretariat.
EN 
L 38/18 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
42. INFORMATION ON OFFICIAL SUPPORT 
a) As soon as a Participant commits the official support which it has notified in accordance with the procedures in 
Articles 45 to 48, it shall inform all other Participants accordingly by including the notification reference number 
on the relevant reporting form. 
b) In an exchange of information in accordance with Articles 53 to 55, a Participant shall inform the other 
Participants of the credit terms and conditions that it envisages supporting for a particular transaction and 
may request similar information from the other Participants. 
43. PROCEDURES FOR MATCHING 
a) Before matching financial terms and conditions assumed to be offered by a Participant or a non-Participant 
pursuant to Articles 17 and 40, a Participant shall make every reasonable effort, including as appropriate by use 
of the face-to-face consultations described in Article 55, to verify that these terms and conditions are officially 
supported and shall comply with the following: 
1) The Participant shall notify all other Participants of the terms and conditions it intends to support following 
the same notification procedures required for the matched terms and conditions. In the case of matching a 
non-Participant, the matching Participant shall follow the same notification procedures that would have been 
required had the matched terms been offered by a Participant. 
2) Notwithstanding subparagraph 1) above, if the applicable notification procedure would require the matching 
Participant to withhold its commitment beyond the final bid closing date, then the matching Participant shall 
give notice of its intention to match as early as possible. 
3) If the initiating Participant moderates or withdraws its intention to support the notified terms and conditions, 
it shall immediately inform all other Participants accordingly. 
b) A Participant intending to offer identical financial terms and conditions to those notified according to Articles 45 
and 46 may do so once the waiting period stipulated therein has expired. This Participant shall give notification 
of its intention as early as possible. 
44. SPECIAL CONSULTATIONS 
a) A Participant that has reasonable grounds to believe that financial terms and conditions offered by another 
Participant (the initiating Participant) are more generous than those provided for in the Arrangement shall 
inform the Secretariat; the Secretariat shall immediately make available such information. 
b) The initiating Participant shall clarify the financial terms and conditions of its offer within two working days 
following the issue of the information from the Secretariat. 
c) Following clarification by the initiating Participant, any Participant may request that a special consultation 
meeting of the Participants be organised by the Secretariat within five working days to discuss the issue. 
d) Pending the outcome of the special consultation meeting of the Participants, financial terms and conditions 
benefiting from official support shall not become effective. 
S e c t i o n 2 
P r o c e d u r e s f o r e x p o r t c r e d i t s 
45. PRIOR NOTIFICATION WITH DISCUSSION 
a) A Participant shall notify all other Participants at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment with a 
credit value of greater than SDR 2 million in accordance with Annex VII if: 
— the applicable country risk classification and buyer risk category used to calculate the MPR is that of a third 
party guarantor located outside of the obligor’s country [i.e. determined according to the first tiret of 
Article 23 e)]; 
— the applicable MPR has been decreased through the application of a country risk mitigation technique listed 
in Article 28; or 
— it intends to provide support in accordance with Article 7 a) 2) or d) of Annex IV.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/19

 
— it intends to provide support in accordance with Article 4 a) of Annex V. 
b) If any other Participant requests a discussion during this period, the initiating Participant shall wait an additional 
ten calendar days. 
c) A Participant shall inform all other Participants of its final decision following a discussion to facilitate the review 
of the body of experience in accordance with Article 64. The Participants shall maintain records of their 
experience with regard to premium rates notified in accordance with paragraph a) above. 
46. PRIOR NOTIFICATION 
a) A Participant shall, in accordance with Annex VII, notify all other Participants at least ten calendar days before 
issuing any commitment with a credit value of greater than SDR 2 million if it intends to: 
1) Provide support in accordance with Article 12 d) 3). 
2) Provide support in accordance with Article 14 a). 
3) Provide support in accordance with Article 15 c). 
4) Apply a premium rate in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 c) 1) when participating as part of a 
syndicated loan package. 
5) Apply a premium rate lower than the corresponding premium determined by the TCMB model, in 
accordance with the second tiret of Article 23 c) 2). 
6) Provide support in Market Benchmark transactions, where a Participant classifies the obligor/guarantor as 
better than the best rating from an Accredited CRA; or if there is no rating from an Accredited CRA, where 
a Participant classifies a transaction as CC2 or better, or a credit rating letter equivalent to AAA to A-, or 
equal to or more favourable than the best Accredited CRA rating of the sovereign in the obligor’s/guar­
antor’s domicile. 
7) Apply a premium rate in accordance with Article 26 e) whereby the selected buyer risk category used to 
calculate the MPR for a transaction: 
— with a non-sovereign obligor/guarantor is lower than CC1 (i.e. CC0 or SOV+); 
— with a non-sovereign obligor/guarantor is better than the Accredited CRA rating. 
8) Apply a premium rate in accordance with Article 29 a) for transactions with a non-sovereign obligor/ 
guarantor, whereby the use of buyer risk credit enhancements results in the application of a CEF of 
greater than 0, or whenever BRCEs are used in a Market Benchmark transaction that result in pricing 
below the corresponding TCMB MPR. 
9) Provide support in accordance with Article 6 a) of Annex II. 
10) Provide support in accordance with Article 7 a) 1) of Annex IV. 
11) Provide support in accordance with Article 4 b) of Annex V. 
b) If the initiating Participant moderates or withdraws its intention to provide support for such transaction, it shall 
immediately inform all other Participants. 
S e c t i o n 3 
P r o c e d u r e s f o r t r a d e - r e l a t e d a i d 
47. PRIOR NOTIFICATION 
a) A Participant shall give prior notification in accordance with Annex VII if it intends to provide official support 
for: 
— Trade-related untied aid with a value of SDR 2 million or more, and a concessionality level of less than 80 %; 
— Trade-related untied aid with a value of less than SDR 2 million and a grant element (as defined by the DAC) 
of less than 50 %;
EN 
L 38/20 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
— Trade-related tied aid with a value of SDR 2 million or more and a concessionality level of less than 80 %; or 
— Trade-related tied aid with a value of less than SDR 2 million and a concessionality level of less than 50 %, 
except for the cases set out in Articles 35 a) and b). 
— Tied aid in accordance with Article 37 d). 
b) Prior notification shall be made at the latest 30 working days before the bid closing or commitment date, 
whichever is the earlier. 
c) If the initiating Participant moderates or withdraws its intention to support the notified terms and conditions, it 
shall immediately inform all other Participants accordingly. 
d) The provision of this Article shall apply to tied aid that forms part of an associated financing package, as 
described in Article 33. 
48. PROMPT NOTIFICATION 
a) A Participant shall promptly notify all other Participants, i.e. within two working days of the commitment, in 
accordance with Annex VII, if it provides official support for tied aid with a value of either: 
— SDR 2 million or more and a concessionality level of 80 % or more; or 
— less than SDR 2 million and a concessionality level of 50 % or more except for the cases set out in 
Articles 36 a) and b). 
b) A Participant shall also promptly notify all other Participants when an aid protocol, credit line or similar 
agreement is signed. 
c) Prior notification need not be given if a Participant intends to match financial terms and conditions that were 
subject to a prompt notification. 
S e c t i o n 4 
C o n s u l t a t i o n p r o c e d u r e s f o r t i e d a i d 
49. PURPOSE OF CONSULTATIONS 
a) A Participant seeking clarification about possible trade motivation for tied aid may request that a full Aid Quality 
Assessment (detailed in Annex XIII) be supplied. 
b) Furthermore, a Participant may request consultations with other Participants, in accordance with Article 50. 
These include face-to-face consultations as outlined in Article 55 in order to discuss: 
— first, whether an aid offer meets the requirements of Articles 34 and 35; and 
— if necessary, whether an aid offer is justified even if the requirements of Articles 34 and 35 are not met. 
50. SCOPE AND TIMING OF CONSULTATIONS 
a) During consultations, a Participant may request, among other items, the following information: 
— the assessment of a detailed feasibility study/project appraisal; 
— whether there is a competing offer with non-concessional or aid financing; 
— the expectation of the project generating or saving foreign currency; 
— whether there is cooperation with multilateral organisations such as the World Bank; 
— the presence of International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in particular if the donor country’s supplier is the 
lowest evaluated bid; 
— the environmental implications; 
— any private sector participation; and 
— the timing of the notifications (e.g. six months prior to bid closing or commitment date) of concessional or 
aid credits.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/21

 
b) The consultation shall be completed and the findings on both questions in Article 48 notified by the Secretariat 
to all Participants at least ten working days before the bid closing date or commitment date, whichever comes 
first. If there is disagreement among the consulting parties, the Secretariat shall invite other Participants to 
express their views within five working days. It shall report these views to the notifying Participant, which 
should reconsider going forward if there appears to be no substantial support for an aid offer. 
51. OUTCOME OF CONSULTATIONS 
a) A donor that wishes to proceed with a project despite the lack of substantial support shall provide prior 
notification of its intentions to other Participants, no later than 60 calendar days after the completion of the 
Consultation, i.e. acceptance of the Chairman’s conclusion. The donor shall also write a letter to the Secretary- 
General of the OECD outlining the results of the consultations and explaining the overriding non-trade related 
national interest that forces this action. The Participants expect that such an occurrence will be unusual and 
infrequent. 
b) The donor shall immediately notify the Participants that it has sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the OECD, 
a copy of which shall be included with the notification. Neither the donor nor any other Participant shall make a 
tied aid commitment until ten working days after this notification to Participants has been issued. For projects 
for which competing commercial offers were identified during the consultation process, the aforementioned ten 
working-day period shall be extended to 15 days. 
c) The Secretariat shall monitor the progress and results of consultations. 
S e c t i o n 5 
I n f o r m a t i o n e x c h a n g e f o r e x p o r t c r e d i t s a n d t r a d e - r e l a t e d a i d 
52. CONTACT POINTS 
All communications shall be made between the designated contact points in each country by means of instant 
communication, e.g. electronic mail, and shall be treated in confidence. 
53. SCOPE OF ENQUIRIES 
a) A Participant may ask another Participant about the attitude it takes with respect to a third country, an 
institution in a third country or a particular method of doing business. 
b) A Participant that has received an application for official support may address an enquiry to another Participant, 
giving the most favourable credit terms and conditions that the enquiring Participant would be willing to 
support. 
c) If an enquiry is made to more than one Participant, it shall contain a list of addressees. 
d) A copy of all enquiries shall be sent to the Secretariat. 
54. SCOPE OF RESPONSES 
a) The Participant to which an enquiry is addressed shall respond within seven calendar days and provide as much 
information as possible. The reply shall include the best indication that the Participant can give of the decision it 
is likely to take. If necessary, the full reply shall follow as soon as possible. Copies shall be sent to the other 
addressees of the enquiry and to the Secretariat. 
b) If an answer to an enquiry subsequently becomes invalid for any reason, because for example: 
— an application has been made, changed or withdrawn, or 
— other terms are being considered, 
a reply shall be made without delay and copied to all other addressees of the enquiry and to the Secretariat. 
55. FACE-TO-FACE CONSULTATIONS 
a) A Participant shall agree within ten working days to requests for face-to-face consultations. 
b) A request for face-to-face consultations shall be made available to Participants and non-Participants. The 
consultations shall take place as soon as possible after the expiry of the ten working-day period.
EN 
L 38/22 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
c) The Chairman of the Participants shall coordinate with the Secretariat on any necessary follow-up action, e.g. a 
Common Line. The Secretariat shall promptly make available the outcome of the consultation. 
56. PROCEDURES AND FORMAT OF COMMON LINES 
a) Common Line proposals are addressed only to the Secretariat. A proposal for a Common Line shall be sent to all 
Participants and, where tied aid is involved, all DAC contact points by the Secretariat. The identity of the initiator 
is not revealed on the Common Line Register on the electronic Bulletin Board maintained by the Secretariat on 
the OECD Network Environment. However, the Secretariat may orally reveal the identity of the initiator to a 
Participant or DAC member on demand. The Secretariat shall keep a record of such requests. 
b) The Common Line proposal shall be dated and shall be in the following format: 
— Reference number, followed by “Common Line”. 
— Name of the importing country and buyer. 
— Name or description of the project as precise as possible to clearly identify the project. 
— Terms and conditions foreseen by the initiating country. 
— Common Line proposal. 
— Nationality and names of known competing bidders. 
— Commercial and financial bid closing date and tender number to the extent it is known. 
— Other relevant information, including reasons for proposing the Common Line, availability of studies of the 
project and/or special circumstances. 
c) A Common Line proposal put forward in accordance with Article 34 b) 4) shall be addressed to the Secretariat 
and copied to other Participants. The Participant making the Common Line proposal shall provide a full 
explanation of the reasons why it considers that the classification of a country should differ from the 
procedure set out in Article 34 b). 
d) The Secretariat shall make publicly available the agreed Common Lines. 
57. RESPONSES TO COMMON LINE PROPOSALS 
a) Responses shall be made within 20 calendar days, although the Participants are encouraged to respond to a 
Common Line proposal as quickly as possible. 
b) A response may be a request for additional information, acceptance, and rejection, a proposal for modification of 
the Common Line or an alternative Common Line proposal. 
c) A Participant that advises that it has no position because it has not been approached by an exporter, or by the 
authorities in the recipient country in case of aid for the project, shall be deemed to have accepted the Common 
Line proposal. 
58. ACCEPTANCE OF COMMON LINES 
a) After a period of 20 calendar days, the Secretariat shall inform all Participants of the status of the Common Line 
proposal. If not all Participants have accepted the Common Line, but no Participant has rejected it, the proposal 
shall be left open for a further period of eight calendar days. 
b) After this further period, a Participant that has not explicitly rejected the Common Line proposal shall be 
deemed to have accepted the Common Line. Nevertheless, a Participant, including the initiating Participant, 
may make its acceptance of the Common Line conditional on the explicit acceptance by one or more Partici­
pants. 
c) If a Participant does not accept one or more elements of a Common Line it implicitly accepts all other elements 
of the Common Line. It is understood that such a partial acceptance may lead other Participants to change their 
attitude towards a proposed Common Line. All Participants are free to offer or match terms and conditions not 
covered by a Common Line. 
d) A Common Line that has not been accepted may be reconsidered using the procedures in Articles 56 and 57. In 
these circumstances, the Participants are not bound by their original decision.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/23

 
59. DISAGREEMENT ON COMMON LINES 
If the initiating Participant and a Participant which has proposed a modification or alternative cannot agree on a 
Common Line within the additional eight-calendar day period, this period can be extended by their mutual consent. 
The Secretariat shall inform all Participants of any such extension. 
60. EFFECTIVE DATE OF COMMON LINE 
The Secretariat shall inform all Participants either that the Common Line will go into effect or that it has been 
rejected; the Common Line will take effect three calendar days after this announcement. The Secretariat shall make 
available on the electronic bulletin board a permanently updated record of all Common Lines that have been agreed 
or are undecided. 
61. VALIDITY OF COMMON LINES 
a) A Common Line, once agreed, shall be valid for a period of two years from its effective date, unless the 
Secretariat is informed that it is no longer of interest, and that this is accepted by all Participants. A 
Common Line shall remain valid for a further two-year period if a Participant seeks an extension within 14 
calendar days of the original date of expiry. Subsequent extensions may be agreed through the same procedure. 
A Common Line agreed in accordance with Article 34 b) 4) shall be valid until World Bank data for the 
following year is available. 
b) The Secretariat shall monitor the status of Common Lines and shall keep the Participants informed accordingly, 
through the maintenance of the listing “The Status of Valid Common Lines” on the electronic bulletin board. 
Accordingly, the Secretariat, inter alia, shall: 
— Add new Common Lines when these have been accepted by the Participants. 
— Update the expiry date when a Participant requests an extension. 
— Delete Common Lines that have expired. 
— Issue, on a quarterly basis, a list of Common Lines due to expire in the following quarter. 
S e c t i o n 6 
R e v i e w s 
62. REGULAR REVIEW OF THE ARRANGEMENT 
a) The Participants shall review regularly the functioning of the Arrangement. In the review, the Participants shall 
examine, inter alia, notification procedures, implementation and operation of the DDR system, rules and 
procedures on tied aid, questions of matching, prior commitments and possibilities of wider participation in 
the Arrangement. 
b) This review shall be based on information of the Participants’ experience and on their suggestions for improving 
the operation and efficacy of the Arrangement. The Participants shall take into account the objectives of the 
Arrangement and the prevailing economic and monetary situation. The information and suggestions that 
Participants wish to put forward for this review shall reach the Secretariat no later than 45 calendar days 
before the date of review. 
63. REVIEW OF MINIMUM INTEREST RATES 
a) The Participants shall periodically review the system for setting CIRRs in order to ensure that the notified rates 
reflect current market conditions and meet the aims underlying the establishment of the rates in operation. Such 
reviews shall also cover the margin to be added when these rates are applied. 
b) A Participant may submit to the Chairman of the Participants a substantiated request for an extraordinary review 
in case this Participant considers that the CIRR for one or more than one currency no longer reflect current 
market conditions. 
64. REVIEW OF MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES AND RELATED ISSUES 
The Participants shall regularly monitor and review all aspects of the premium rules and procedures. This shall 
include: 
a) The Country Risk Classification and Sovereign Risk Assessment Methodologies to review their validity in the 
light of experience;
EN 
L 38/24 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
b) The level of the MPRs to ensure that they remain an accurate measure of credit risk, taking into account both 
the actual experience of institutions providing official export credits as well as private market information on 
the pricing of credit risk; 
c) The differentiations in the MPRs which take account of the differing quality of export credit products and 
percentage of cover provided; and 
d) The body of experience related to the use of country risk mitigation and buyer risk credit enhancements and the 
continued validity and appropriateness of their specific impact on the MPRs. 
65. REVIEW OF OFFICIAL SUPPORT FOR LOCAL COSTS 
The Participants shall review the provisions on local costs support by no later than 20 April 2024.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/25

 
ANNEX I 
SECTOR UNDERSTANDING ON EXPORT CREDITS FOR SHIPS 
CHAPTER I 
Scope of the sector understanding 
1. 
PARTICIPATION 
The Participants to the Sector Understanding are: Australia, the European Union, Japan, Korea, New Zealand and 
Norway. 
2. 
SCOPE OF APPLICATION 
This Sector Understanding, which complements the Arrangement, sets out specific guidelines for officially 
supported export credits relating to export contracts of: 
a) Any new sea-going vessel of 100 gt and above used for the transportation of goods or persons, or for the 
performance of a specialised service (for example, fishing vessels, fish factory ships, ice breakers and as dredgers, 
that present in a permanent way by their means of propulsion and direction (steering) all the characteristics of 
self-navigability in the high sea), tugs of 365 kw and over and to unfinished shells of ships that are afloat and 
mobile. The Sector Understanding does not cover military vessels. Floating docks and mobile offshore units are 
not covered by the Sector Understanding, but should problems arise in connection with export credits for such 
structures, the Participants to the Sector Understanding (hereinafter the “Participants”), after consideration of 
substantiated requests by any Participant, may decide that they shall be covered. 
b) Any conversion of a ship. Ship conversion means any conversion of sea-going vessels of more than 1 000 gt on 
condition that conversion operations entail radical alterations to the cargo plan, the hull or the propulsion 
system. 
1. Although hovercraft-type vessels are not included in the Sector Understanding, Participants are allowed to 
grant export credits for hovercraft vessels on equivalent conditions to those prevailing in the Sector Under­
standing. They commit themselves to apply this possibility moderately and not to grant such credit 
conditions to hovercraft vessels in cases where it is established that no competition is offered under the 
conditions of the Sector Understanding. 
2. In the Sector Understanding, the term “hovercraft” is defined as follows: an amphibious vehicle of at least 100 
tons designed to be supported wholly by air expelled from the vehicle forming a plenum contained within a 
flexible skirt around the periphery of the vehicle and the ground or water surface beneath the vehicle, and 
capable of being propelled and controlled by airscrews or ducted air from fans or similar devices. 
3. It is understood that the granting of export credits at conditions equivalent to those prevailing in this Sector 
Understanding should be limited to those hovercraft vessels used on maritime routes and non-land routes, 
except for reaching terminal facilities standing at a maximum distance of one kilometre from the water. 
CHAPTER II 
Provisions for export credits and tied aid 
3. 
MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERM 
The maximum repayment term, irrespective of country classification, is 12 years after delivery. 
4. 
CASH PAYMENT 
The Participants shall require a minimum cash payment of 20 % of the contract price by delivery. 
5. 
REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST 
a) The principal sum of an export credit shall be repaid in equal instalments at regular intervals of normally six 
months and a maximum of 12 months.
EN 
L 38/26 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
b) Interest shall be paid no less frequently than every six months and the first payment of interest shall be made no 
later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
c) For export credits provided in support of lease transactions, equal repayments of principal and interest combined 
may be applied in lieu of equal repayments of principal as set out in paragraph a). 
d) Interest due after the starting point of credit shall not be capitalised. 
e) A Participant to this Sector Understanding intending to support a payment of interest on different terms than 
those set out in paragraph b) shall give prior notification at least ten calendar days before issuing any 
commitment, in accordance with Annex VII of the Arrangement. 
6. 
MINIMUM PREMIUM 
The provisions of the Arrangement in relation to minimum premium benchmarks shall not be applied until such 
provisions have been further reviewed by the Participants to this Sector Understanding. 
7. 
PROJECT FINANCE 
The provisions of Article 8 and of Annex VI to the Arrangement shall not be applied until such provisions have 
been further reviewed by the Participants to this Sector Understanding. 
8. 
AID 
Any Participant desiring to provide aid must, in addition to the provisions of the Arrangement, confirm that the 
ship is not operated under an open registry during the repayment term and that appropriate assurance has been 
obtained that the ultimate owner resides in the receiving country, is not a non-operational subsidiary of a foreign 
interest and has undertaken not to sell the ship without his government’s approval. 
CHAPTER III 
Procedures 
9. 
NOTIFICATION 
For the purpose of transparency each Participant shall, in addition to the provisions of the Arrangement and the 
IBRD/Berne Union/OECD Creditor Reporting System, provide annually information on its system for the provision 
of official support and of the means of implementation of this Sector Understanding, including the schemes in 
force. 
10. REVIEW 
a) The Sector Understanding shall be reviewed annually or upon request by any Participant within the context of 
the OECD Working Party on Shipbuilding, and a report made to the Participants to the Arrangement. 
b) To facilitate coherence and consistency between the Arrangement and this Sector Understanding and taking into 
account the nature of the shipbuilding industry, the Participants to this Sector Understanding and to the 
Arrangement will consult and coordinate as appropriate. 
c) Upon a decision by the Participants to the Arrangement to change the Arrangement, the Participants to this 
Sector Understanding (the Participants) will examine such a decision and consider its relevance to this Sector 
Understanding. Pending such consideration the amendments to the Arrangement will not apply to this Sector 
Understanding. In case the Participants can accept the amendments to the Arrangement they shall report this in 
writing to the Participants to the Arrangement. In case the Participants cannot accept the amendments to the 
Arrangement as far as their application to shipbuilding is concerned they shall inform the Participants to the 
Arrangement of their objections and enter into consultations with them with a view to seeking a resolution of 
the issues. In case no agreement can be reached between the two groups, the views of the Participants as regards 
the application of the amendments to shipbuilding shall prevail.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/27

 
Attachment 
Commitments for future work 
In addition to the Future Work of the Arrangement, the Participants to this Sector Understanding agree: 
a) To develop an illustrative list of types of ships which are generally considered non-commercially viable, taking into 
account the disciplines on tied aid set out in the Arrangement. 
b) To review the provisions of the Arrangement in relation to minimum premium benchmarks with a view to 
incorporating them into this Sector Understanding. 
c) To discuss, subject to the developments in relevant international negotiations, the inclusion of other disciplines on 
minimum interest rates including a special CIRR and floating rates. 
d) To review the applicability to this Sector Understanding of provisions of the Arrangement in relation to Project 
Finance. 
e) To discuss whether: 
— the date of the first instalment of principal; 
— the Weighted Average Life concept 
may be used in relation to the repayment profile contained in Article 5 of this Sector Understanding.
EN 
L 38/28 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX II 
SECTOR UNDERSTANDING ON EXPORT CREDITS FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS 
CHAPTER I 
Scope of the sector understanding 
1. SCOPE OF APPLICATION 
a) This Sector Understanding sets out the provisions which apply to officially supported export credits relating to 
contracts for: 
1) The export of complete nuclear power stations or parts thereof, comprising all components, equipment, 
materials and services, including the training of personnel directly required for the construction and commis­
sioning of such nuclear power stations. 
2) The modernisation of existing nuclear power plants in cases where both the overall value of the modernisation 
is at or above SDR 80 million and the economic life of the plant is likely to be extended by at least the 
repayment period to be awarded. If either of these criteria is not met, the terms of the Arrangement apply. 
3) The supply of nuclear fuel and enrichment. 
4) The provision of spent fuel management. 
b) This Sector Understanding does not apply to: 
1) Items located outside the nuclear power plant site boundary for which the buyer is usually responsible, in 
particular costs associated with land development, roads, construction village, power lines, switchyard ( 1 ) and 
water supply, as well as costs arising in the buyer’s country from official approval procedures (e.g. site permit, 
construction permit, fuel loading permit). 
2) Sub-stations, transformers and transmission lines located outside the nuclear power plant site boundary. 
3) Official support provided for the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant. 
CHAPTER II 
Provisions for export credits and trade-related aid 
2. MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS 
a) The maximum repayment term for goods and services included in the provisions of Articles 1 a) 1) and 2) of this 
Sector Understanding is 18 years. 
b) The maximum repayment term for the initial fuel load is four years from delivery. The maximum repayment term 
for subsequent reloads of nuclear fuel is two years from delivery. 
c) The maximum repayment term for spent fuel disposal is two years. 
d) The maximum repayment term for enrichment and spent fuel management is five years.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/29 
( 1 ) However, in cases where the buyer of the switchyard is the same as the buyer of the power plant and the contract is concluded in 
relation to the original switchyard for that power plant, the terms and conditions for the original switchyard shall not be more 
generous than those for the nuclear power plant.

 
3. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST 
a) The Participants shall apply a profile of repayment of principal and payment of interest as specified in 
subparagraph 1) or 2) below: 
1) Repayment of principal shall be made in equal instalments. 
2) Repayment of principal and payment of interest combined shall be made in equal instalments. 
b) Principal shall be repaid and interest shall be paid no less frequently than every six months and the first instalment 
of principal and interest shall be made no later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
c) On an exceptional and duly justified basis, official support for goods and services mentioned in Articles 1) a) 1) 
and 2) of this Understanding may be provided on terms other than those set out in paragraphs a) and b) above. 
The provision of such support shall be explained by an imbalance in the timing of the funds available to the 
obligor and the debt service profile available under an equal, semi-annual repayment schedule, and shall comply 
with the following criteria: 
1) The maximum repayment term shall be 15 years. 
2) No single repayment of principal or series of principal payments within a six-month period shall exceed 25 % 
of the principal sum of the credit. 
3) Principal shall be repaid no less frequently than every 12 months. The first repayment of principal shall be 
made no later than 12 months after the starting point of credit and no less than 2 % of the principal sum of 
the credit shall have been repaid 12 months after the starting point of credit. 
4) Interest shall be paid no less frequently than every 12 months and the first interest payment shall be made no 
later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
5) The maximum weighted average life of the repayment period shall not exceed nine years. 
d) Interest due after the starting point of credit shall not be capitalised. 
4. OFFICIAL SUPPORT FOR NUCLEAR FUEL AND FOR NUCLEAR FUEL RELATED SERVICES 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 5 of this Sector Understanding, the Participants shall not provide free 
nuclear fuel or services. 
5. AID 
The Participants shall not provide aid support. 
CHAPTER III 
Procedures 
6. PRIOR NOTIFICATION 
a) A Participant shall give prior notification in accordance with Article 46 of the Arrangement at least ten calendar 
days before issuing any commitment if it intends to provide support in accordance with the provisions of this 
Sector Understanding. 
b) If the notifying Participant intends to provide support with a repayment term in excess of 15 years and/or in 
accordance with Article 3 c) of this Sector Understanding, it shall wait an additional ten calendar days if any other 
Participant requests a discussion during the initial ten calendar days. 
c) A Participant shall inform all other Participants of its final decision following a discussion, to facilitate the review 
of the body of experience.
EN 
L 38/30 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
CHAPTER IV 
Review 
7. FUTURE WORK 
The Participants agree to examine the following issues: 
a) A minimum floating interest rate regime. 
b) The maximum amount of official support for local costs. 
8. REVIEW AND MONITORING 
The Participants shall review regularly the provisions of the Sector Understanding and at the latest by the end of 
2023.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/31

 
ANNEX III 
SECTOR UNDERSTANDING ON EXPORT CREDITS FOR CIVIL AIRCRAFT 
PART 1 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1. 
PURPOSE 
a) The purpose of this Sector Understanding is to provide a framework for the predictable, consistent and trans­
parent use of officially supported export credits for the sale or lease of aircraft and other goods and services 
specified in Article 4 a) below. This Sector Understanding seeks to foster a level playing field for such export 
credits, in order to encourage competition among exporters based on quality and price of goods and services 
exported rather than on the most favourable officially supported financial terms and conditions. 
b) This Sector Understanding sets out the most favourable terms and conditions on which officially supported 
export credits may be provided. 
c) To this aim, this Sector Understanding seeks to establish a balanced equilibrium that, on all markets: 
1) Equalises competitive financial conditions between the Participants, 
2) Neutralises official support among the Participants as a factor in the choice among competing goods and 
services specified in Article 4 a) below, and 
3) Avoids distortion of competition among the Participants to this Sector Understanding and any other sources 
of financing. 
d) The Participants to this Sector Understanding (the Participants) acknowledge that the provisions included in this 
Sector Understanding have been developed for the sole purpose of this Sector Understanding and such 
provisions do not prejudice the other parts of the Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits (the 
Arrangement) and their evolution. 
2. 
STATUS 
This Sector Understanding is a Gentlemen’s Agreement among its Participants and is Annex III to the Arrangement; 
it forms an integral part of the Arrangement and it succeeds the Sector Understanding, which came into effect in 
July 2007. 
3. 
PARTICIPATION 
The Participants currently are: Australia, Brazil, Canada, the European Union, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Norway, 
Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Any non-Participant may become a Participant in 
accordance with the procedures set out in Appendix I. 
4. 
SCOPE OF APPLICATION 
a) This Sector Understanding shall apply to all official support provided by or on behalf of a government, and 
which has a repayment term of two years or more, for the export of: 
1) New civil aircraft and engines installed thereon, including buyer furnished equipment. 
2) Used, converted, and refurbished civil aircraft and engines installed thereon, including, in each case, buyer 
furnished equipment. 
3) Spare engines. 
4) Spare parts for civil aircraft and engines. 
5) Maintenance and service contracts for civil aircraft and engines.
EN 
L 38/32 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
6) Conversion, major modifications and refurbishment of civil aircraft. 
7) Engine kits. 
b) Official support may be provided in different forms: 
1) Export credit guarantee or insurance (pure cover). 
2) Official financing support: 
— direct credit/financing and refinancing or 
— interest rate support. 
3) Any combination of the above. 
c) This Sector Understanding shall not apply to official support for: 
1) The exports of new or used military aircraft and related goods and services listed in paragraph a) above, 
including when used for military purposes. 
2) New or used flight simulators. 
5. 
INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO NON-PARTICIPANTS 
A Participant shall, on the basis of reciprocity, reply to a request from a non-Participant in a competitive situation 
on the financial terms and conditions offered for its official support as it would reply to a request from a 
Participant. 
6. 
AID SUPPORT 
The Participants shall not provide aid support, except for humanitarian purposes, through a Common Line 
procedure. 
7. 
ACTIONS TO AVOID OR MINIMISE LOSSES 
This Sector Understanding does not prevent its Participants from agreeing to less restrictive financial terms and 
conditions than those provided for by this Sector Understanding, if such action is taken after the export credit 
agreement and ancillary documents have already become effective and is intended solely to avoid or minimise 
losses from events which could give rise to non-payment or claims. A Participant shall notify all other Participants 
and the OECD Secretariat (the Secretariat), within 20 working days following the Participant’s agreement with the 
buyer/borrower, of the modified financial terms and conditions. The notification shall contain information, 
including the motivation, on the new financial terms and conditions, using the reporting form set out in 
Appendix IV. 
PART 2 
NEW AIRCRAFT 
CHAPTER I 
Coverage 
8. 
NEW AIRCRAFT 
a) For the purpose of this Sector Understanding, a new aircraft is: 
1) An aircraft, including buyer furnished equipment, and the engines installed on such aircraft owned by the 
manufacturer and not delivered nor previously used for its intended purpose of carrying passengers and/or 
freight and
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/33

 
2) Spare engines and spare parts when contemplated as part of the original aircraft order in accordance with the 
provisions of Article 20 a) below. 
b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph a) above, a Participant may support terms appropriate to new 
aircraft for transactions where, with the prior knowledge of that Participant, interim financing arrangements had 
been put in place because the provision of official support had been delayed; such delay shall not be longer than 
18 months. In such cases, the repayment term and the final repayment date shall be the same as if the sale or 
lease of the aircraft would have been officially supported from the date the aircraft was originally delivered. 
CHAPTER II 
Financial terms and conditions 
Financial terms and conditions for export credits encompass all the provisions set out in this Chapter, which shall be 
read in conjunction one with the other. 
9. 
ELIGIBLE CURRENCIES 
The currencies, which are eligible for official financing support, are euro, Japanese yen, UK pound sterling, US 
dollar, and other fully convertible currencies for which data are available to construct the minimum interest rates 
mentioned in Appendix III. 
10. DOWN PAYMENT AND MAXIMUM OFFICIAL SUPPORT 
a) For transactions with buyers/borrowers classified in Risk Category 1 (as per Table 1 of Appendix II), the 
Participants shall: 
1) Require a minimum down payment of 20 % of the net price of the aircraft at or before the starting point of 
credit; 
2) Not provide official support in excess of 80 % of the net price of the aircraft. 
b) For transactions with buyers/borrowers classified in Risk Categories 2 to 8 (as per Table 1 of Appendix II), the 
Participants shall: 
1) Require a minimum down payment of 15 % of the net price of the aircraft at or before the starting point of 
credit; 
2) Not provide official support in excess of 85 % of the net price of the aircraft. 
c) A Participant which applies Article 8 b) above shall reduce the maximum amount of official support by the 
amount of principal of the instalments deemed due from the starting point of the credit so as to ensure that, at 
the time of disbursement, the amount outstanding is the same as if such an officially supported export credit 
was provided at the time of delivery. In such circumstances, prior to delivery the Participant shall have received 
an application for official support. 
11. MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES 
a) The Participants providing official support shall charge, for the credit amount officially supported, no less than 
the minimum premium rate set out in accordance with Appendix II. 
b) The Participants shall use, whenever necessary, the agreed premium rate conversion model to convert between 
per annum spreads calculated on the outstanding amount of the official support and single up-front premium 
rates calculated on the original amount of the official support.
EN 
L 38/34 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
12. MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERM 
a) The maximum repayment term shall be 12 years for all new aircraft. 
b) On an exceptional basis, and with a prior notification, a maximum repayment term of up to 15 years shall be 
allowed. In this case, a surcharge of 35 % to the minimum premium rates calculated in accordance with 
Appendix II shall apply. 
c) There shall be no extension of the repayment term by way of sharing of rights in the security on a pari passu 
basis with commercial lenders for the officially supported export credit. 
13. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST 
a) The Participants shall apply a profile of repayment of principal and payment of interest as specified in 
subparagraph 1) or 2) below ( 1 ). 
1) Repayment of principal and payment of interest combined shall be made in equal instalments: 
— Instalments shall be made no less frequently than every three months and the first instalment shall be 
made no later than three months after the starting point of credit. 
— Alternatively, and subject to a prior notification (unless it is a de minimis transaction), instalments shall be 
made every six months and the first instalment shall be made no later than six months after the starting 
point of credit. In this case, a surcharge of 15 % to the minimum premium rates calculated in accordance 
with Appendix II shall apply. 
— In the case of a floating rate transaction, the principal amortising profile shall be set for the entire term, 
no more than five business days prior to the disbursement date, based on the floating or swap rate at that 
time. 
2) Repayment of principal shall be made in equal instalments with interest payable on declining balances: 
— Instalments shall be made no less frequently than every three months and the first instalment shall be 
made no later than three months after the starting point of credit. 
— Alternatively, and subject to a prior notification (unless it is a de minimis transaction), instalments shall be 
made every six months and the first instalment shall be made no later than six months after the starting 
point of credit. In this case, a surcharge of 15 % to the minimum premium rates calculated in accordance 
with Appendix II shall apply. 
b) Notwithstanding paragraph a) above, and subject to a prior notification, the repayment of principal may be 
structured to include a final payment of all outstanding amounts on a specified date. In such case, repayments of 
principal prior to the final payment will be structured as set out in paragraph a) above, based on an amortisation 
period not greater than the maximum repayment term allowed for the goods and services being supported. 
c) Notwithstanding paragraph a) above, repayment of principal may be structured on terms less favourable to the 
obligor. 
d) Interest due after the starting point of credit shall not be capitalised. 
14. MINIMUM INTEREST RATES 
a) The Participants providing official financing support shall apply either a minimum floating interest rate or a 
minimum fixed interest rate, in accordance with the provisions of Appendix III. 
b) For jet aircraft of a net price of at least USD 35 million, official financing support on CIRR basis shall only be 
provided in exceptional circumstances. A Participant intending to provide such support shall notify all other 
Participants at least 20 calendar days before final commitment, identifying the borrower.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/35 
( 1 ) Ex ante semi-annual repayment reporting requirement does not apply to small aircraft transactions with a total financed amount of 
less than USD 5 million (i.e. de minimis transactions).

 
c) Interest rate excludes any payment by way of premium referred to in Article 11 above, and fees referred to in 
Article 16 below. 
15. INTEREST RATE SUPPORT 
The Participants providing interest rate support shall comply with the financial terms and conditions of this Sector 
Understanding and shall require any bank or any other financial institution which is a party to the interest 
supported transaction to participate in that transaction only on terms that are consistent in all respects with 
the financial terms and conditions of this Sector Understanding. 
16. FEES 
a) Subject to the limits of the premium holding period, the Participants providing official support in the form of 
pure cover shall charge a premium holding fee on the un-drawn portion of the official support during the 
premium holding period, as follows: 
1) For the first six months of the holding period: zero basis points per annum. 
2) For the second six months of the holding period: 12,5 basis points per annum. 
3) For the third and final six months of the holding period: 25 basis points per annum. 
b) The Participants providing official support in the form of direct credit/financing shall charge the following fees: 
1) Arrangement/Structuring fee: 25 basis points on the disbursed amount payable at the time of each 
disbursement. 
2) Commitment and premium holding fee: 20 basis points per annum on the un-drawn portion of the officially 
supported export credit to be disbursed, during the premium holding period, payable in arrears. 
3) Administration fee: five basis points per annum on the amount of official support outstanding payable in 
arrears. Alternatively, the Participants may elect to have this fee payable as an upfront fee, on the amount 
disbursed, at the time of each disbursement pursuant to the provisions of Article 11 b) above. 
17. CO-FINANCING 
Notwithstanding Articles 14 and 16 above, in a co-financing where official support is provided by way of direct 
credit and pure cover, and where pure cover represents at least 35 % of the officially supported amount, the 
Participant providing direct credit shall apply the same financial terms and conditions, including fees, as those 
provided by the financial institution under pure cover, to generate an all-in cost equivalence between the pure cover 
provider and the direct lender. In such circumstances, the Participant providing such support shall report the 
financial terms and conditions supported, including fees, in accordance with the reporting form set out in 
Appendix IV. 
PART 3 
USED AIRCRAFT, SPARE ENGINES, SPARE PARTS, MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE CONTRACTS 
CHAPTER I 
Coverage 
18. USED AIRCRAFT AND OTHER GOODS AND SERVICES 
This Part of the Sector Understanding shall apply to used aircraft and to spare engines, spare parts, conversion, 
major modification, refurbishing, maintenance and service contracts in conjunction with both new and used aircraft 
and engine kits.
EN 
L 38/36 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
CHAPTER II 
Financial terms and conditions 
The financial terms and conditions to be applied, other than the maximum repayment term, shall be in accordance with 
the provisions set out in Part 2 of this Sector Understanding. 
19. SALE OF USED AIRCRAFT 
a) Subject to paragraph b) below, the maximum repayment term for used aircraft shall be established in accordance 
with the age of the aircraft, as set out in the following table: 
Age of aircraft (years since 
the date of original 
manufacture) 
Maximum repayment terms for 
asset-backed or sovereign 
transactions (years) 
Maximum repayment terms for 
transactions neither asset-backed 
nor sovereign (years) 
1 
10 
8,5 
2 
9 
7,5 
3 
8 
6,5 
4 
7 
6 
5–8 
6 
5,5 
Over 8 
5 
5 
b) The maximum repayment term for aircraft that have undergone conversion, provided the transaction meets all 
the requirements of Article 19 of Appendix II and provided further that official support, if any, provided in 
respect of such conversion was not provided in accordance with Article 21 a) below, shall be established in 
accordance with the period of time since the date of conversion and the age of the aircraft, as set out in the 
following table: 
Maximum repayment terms for asset-backed converted aircraft (years) 
Period of time since the date of conversion 
(years) 
Age of aircraft (years since the date of original 
manufacture) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5–8 
Over 8 
0 (Newly converted) 
10 
9 
8 
8 
8 
8 
1 
10 
9 
8 
7 
7 
7 
2 
9 
8 
7 
6 
6 
3 or more 
8 
7 
6 
5 
20. SPARE ENGINES AND SPARE PARTS 
a) When purchased, or ordered in connection with the engines to be installed on a new aircraft, the official support 
for spare engines may be provided on the same terms and conditions as for the aircraft. 
b) When purchased with new aircraft, the official support for spare parts may be provided on the same terms and 
conditions as for the aircraft up to a maximum 5 % of the net price of the new aircraft and installed engines; 
paragraph d) below shall apply to official support for spare parts in excess of the 5 % limit. 
c) When spare engines are not purchased with a new aircraft, the maximum repayment term shall be eight years. 
For spare engines with a unit value of USD 10 million or more, the repayment term may be increased to 
10 years, provided the transaction meets all the requirements of Article 19 of Appendix II. 
d) When other spare parts are not purchased with a new aircraft, the maximum repayment term shall be: 
1) Five years with a contract value of USD 5 million or more. 
2) Two years with a contract value of less than USD 5 million.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/37

 
21. CONTRACTS FOR CONVERSION/MAJOR MODIFICATION/REFURBISHING 
a) If a transaction for conversion: 
1) Is valued at USD 5 million or more, and 
— Meets all the requirements of Article 19 of Appendix II, a Participant may offer official support with a 
repayment term of up to eight years. 
— Does not meet all the requirements of Article 19 of Appendix II, a Participant may offer official support 
with a repayment term of up to five years. 
2) Is valued at less than USD 5 million, a Participant may offer official support with a repayment term of up to 
two years. 
b) If a transaction is for a major modification, or refurbishment, a Participant may offer official support with a 
repayment term of up to: 
1) Five years if the contract value is USD 5 million or more; 
2) Two years, if the contract value is less than USD 5 million. 
22. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE CONTRACTS 
The Participants may offer official support with a repayment term of up to three years. 
23. ENGINE KITS 
The Participants may offer official support with a repayment term of up to five years. 
PART 4 
TRANSPARENCY PROCEDURES 
All communications shall be made between the designated contact points in each Participant country by means of 
instant communication, e.g. using the electronic mail system that is maintained by the Secretariat to facilitate communi­
cations amongst Participants and the Secretariat. Unless otherwise agreed, all information exchanged under this Part of 
the Sector Understanding shall be treated by all Participants as confidential. 
S e c t i o n 1 
I n f o r m a t i o n r e q u i r e m e n t s 
24. INFORMATION ON OFFICIAL SUPPORT 
a) Within one month after the date of a final commitment, a Participant shall submit the information required in 
Appendix IV to all other Participants, with a copy to the Secretariat. 
b) In order to establish the margin benchmark in accordance with Appendix III Article 8 b), information on pure 
cover margins, as outlined in Appendix III Articles 8 c) and d), shall be submitted to the Secretariat no later than 
five days after the end of each month. 
S e c t i o n 2 
E x c h a n g e o f i n f o r m a t i o n 
25. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION 
a) A Participant may ask another Participant for information about the use of its officially supported export credits 
for the sale or lease of aircraft covered by this Sector Understanding. 
b) A Participant that has received an application for official support may address an enquiry to another Participant, 
giving the most favourable credit terms and conditions that the enquiring Participant would be willing to 
support.
EN 
L 38/38 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
c) The Participant to which such an enquiry is addressed shall respond within seven calendar days and provide 
reciprocal information to the fullest extent possible. The reply shall include the best indication that the 
Participant can give of the decision it is likely to take. If necessary, the full reply shall follow as soon as possible. 
d) Copies of all enquiries and responses shall be sent to the Secretariat. 
26. FACE-TO-FACE CONSULTATIONS 
a) In a competitive situation, a Participant may request face-to-face consultations with one or more Participants. 
b) Any Participant shall agree within ten working days to such requests. 
c) The consultations shall take place as soon as possible after the expiry of the ten working-day period. 
d) The Chairman of the Participants shall coordinate with the Secretariat on any necessary follow-up action. The 
Secretariat shall promptly make available to all Participants the outcome of the consultation. 
27. SPECIAL CONSULTATIONS 
a) A Participant (the initiating Participant) that has reasonable grounds to believe that financial terms and 
conditions offered by another Participant (the responding Participant) are more generous than those provided 
for in this Sector Understanding shall inform the Secretariat; the Secretariat shall immediately make available 
such information to the responding Participant. 
b) The responding Participant shall clarify the financial terms and conditions of the official support being 
considered within five working days following the issue of the information from the Secretariat. 
c) Following clarification by the responding Participant, the initiating Participant may request that a special 
consultation with the responding Participant be organised by the Secretariat within five working days to 
discuss the issue. 
d) The responding Participant shall wait for the outcome of the consultation which shall be determined on the day 
of such consultation before proceeding any further with the transaction. 
S e c t i o n 3 
C o m m o n l i n e s 
28. PROCEDURES AND FORMAT OF COMMON LINES 
a) Common Line proposals shall be addressed to the Secretariat only. The identity of the initiator is not revealed on 
the Common Line register on the electronic bulletin board maintained by the Secretariat on the OECD Network 
Environment. However, the Secretariat may orally reveal the identity of the initiator to a Participant on demand. 
The Secretariat shall keep a record of such requests. 
b) The Common Line proposal shall be dated and shall be in the following format: 
1) Reference number, followed by Common Line. 
2) Name of the importing country and buyer/borrower. 
3) Name or description of the transaction as precise as possible to clearly identify the transaction. 
4) Common Line proposal for the most generous terms and conditions to be supported. 
5) Nationality and names of known competing bidders.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/39

 
6) Bid closing date and tender number to the extent it is known. 
7) Other relevant information, including reasons for proposing the Common Line and as appropriate, special 
circumstances. 
29. RESPONSES TO COMMON LINE PROPOSALS 
a) Responses shall be made within 20 calendar days, although the Participants are encouraged to respond to a 
Common Line proposal as quickly as possible. 
b) A response may be acceptance, rejection, a request for additional information, a proposal for modification of the 
Common Line or an alternative Common Line proposal. 
c) A Participant that remains silent or advises that it has no position shall be deemed to have accepted the 
Common Line proposal. 
30. ACCEPTANCE OF COMMON LINES 
a) After a period of 20 calendar days, the Secretariat shall inform all Participants of the status of the Common Line 
proposal. If not all Participants have accepted the Common Line, but no Participant has rejected it, the proposal 
shall be left open for a further period of eight calendar days. 
b) After this further period, a Participant that has not explicitly rejected the Common Line proposal shall be 
deemed to have accepted the Common Line. Nevertheless, a Participant, including the initiating Participant, 
may make its acceptance of the Common Line conditional on the explicit acceptance by one or more Partici­
pants. 
c) If a Participant does not accept one or more elements of a Common Line it implicitly accepts all other elements 
of the Common Line. 
31. DISAGREEMENT ON COMMON LINES 
a) If the initiating Participant and a Participant which has proposed a modification or alternative cannot agree on a 
Common Line within the additional eight calendar-day period mentioned in Article 30 above, this period can be 
extended by their mutual consent. The Secretariat shall inform all Participants of any such extension. 
b) A Common Line that has not been accepted may be reconsidered using the procedures in Articles 28 to 30 
above. In these circumstances, the Participants are not bound by their original decision. 
32. EFFECTIVE DATE OF COMMON LINE 
The Secretariat shall inform all Participants either that the Common Line will go into effect or that it has been 
rejected; the agreed Common Line will take effect three calendar days after this announcement. 
33. VALIDITY OF COMMON LINES 
a) Unless agreed otherwise, a Common Line, once agreed, shall be valid for a period of two years from its effective 
date, unless the Secretariat is informed that it is no longer of interest, and that such situation is accepted by all 
Participants. 
b) If a Participant seeks an extension within 14 calendar days of the original date of expiry and in the absence of 
disagreement, a Common Line shall remain valid for a further two-year period; subsequent extensions may be 
agreed through the same procedure. 
c) The Secretariat shall monitor the status of Common Lines and shall keep the Participants informed accordingly, 
through the maintenance of the listing “The Status of Valid Common Lines” on the electronic bulletin board. 
Accordingly, the Secretariat, inter alia, shall issue, on a quarterly basis, a list of Common Lines due to expire in 
the following quarter.
EN 
L 38/40 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
d) Upon the request of a non-Participant that produces competing aircraft, the Secretariat shall make available valid 
Common Lines to that non-Participant. 
S e c t i o n 4 
M a t c h i n g 
34. MATCHING 
a) Taking into account a Participant’s international obligations, a Participant may match financial terms and 
conditions of official support offered by a non-Participant. 
b) In the event of matching non-conforming terms and conditions offered by a non-Participant: 
1) The matching Participant shall make every effort to verify such terms and conditions. 
2) The matching Participant shall inform the Secretariat and all other Participants of the nature and outcome of 
such efforts, as well as of the terms and conditions it intends to support, at least ten calendar days before 
issuing any commitment. 
3) If a competing Participant requests a discussion during this ten calendar-day period, the matching Participant 
shall wait an additional ten calendar days before issuing any commitment on such terms. 
c) If a matching Participant modifies or withdraws its intention to support the notified terms and conditions, it 
shall immediately inform all other Participants accordingly. 
PART 5 
MONITORING AND REVIEW 
35. MONITORING 
The Secretariat shall monitor the implementation of this Sector Understanding and report to the Participants on an 
annual basis. 
36. REVIEW 
The Participants shall review the procedures and provisions of this Sector Understanding, against the criteria, and at 
the times, set out in paragraphs a) and b) below. 
a) The Participants shall undertake the review of this Sector Understanding as follows: 
1) In calendar year 2019 and every fourth year thereafter, in each case with three months prior notice given by 
the Secretariat. 
2) At the request of a Participant after due consultation, provided that three months prior notice has been given 
by the Secretariat and the requesting Participant provides a written explanation of the reason for, and 
objectives of, the review as well as a summary of the consultations preceding its request. 
3) Modalities of update of minimum premium rates and minimum interest rates are set out in Appendices II 
and III respectively. 
4) Fees set out in Article 16 shall be part of reviews. 
b) The review set out in subparagraph a) 1) above shall consider: 
1) The extent to which the purposes of this Sector Understanding, as set out in Article 1 above, have been 
achieved and any other issue a Participant may wish to bring forward for discussion.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/41

 
2) In view of the elements in subparagraph b) 1) above, whether amendments to any aspect of this Sector 
Understanding are justified. 
c) In recognition of the importance of the review process, to ensure that the terms and conditions of this Sector 
Understanding continue to meet the needs of the Participants, each Participant reserves the right to withdraw 
from this Sector Understanding in accordance with Article 40 below. 
37. FUTURE WORK 
Consideration will be given to: 
a) Examining Participants’ practices in providing official support before the starting point of credit. 
b) The provisions applicable to indirect loans. 
c) An extension of maximum repayments terms under Article 19 for used aircraft that have undergone significant 
refurbishment prior to sale. 
d) An extension of maximum repayment terms under Article 21 for larger contract values. 
e) The provisions applicable to “refurbishing” (Article 21) and “services” (Article 22). 
f) The Cape Town eligibility process. 
g) The definition of “Interested Participant”. 
PART 6 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
38. ENTRY INTO FORCE 
The effective date of this Sector Understanding is 1 February 2011. 
39. WITHDRAWAL 
A Participant may withdraw from this Sector Understanding by notifying the Secretariat in writing by means of 
instant communication, e.g. electronic mail. The withdrawal takes effect six months after receipt of the notification 
by the Secretariat. Withdrawal will not affect agreements reached on individual transactions entered into prior to 
the effective date of the withdrawal.
EN 
L 38/42 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
Appendix I 
Participation in the aircraft sector understanding 
1. The Participants encourage non-Participants that are developing a manufacturing capacity for civil aircraft to apply 
the disciplines of this Sector Understanding. In this context the Participants invite non-Participants to enter into a 
dialogue with them regarding the conditions of joining the ASU. 
2. The Secretariat should ensure that a non-Participant interested in participating in this Sector Understanding is 
provided with full information on the terms and conditions associated with becoming a Participant to this Sector 
Understanding. 
3. The non-Participant would then be invited by the Participants to take part in the activities in pursuance of this Sector 
Understanding and to attend, as an observer, the relevant meetings. Such an invitation would be for a maximum of 
two years and could be renewed once for a further two years. During this period the non-Participant shall be invited 
to provide a review of its export credit system, especially for the export of civil aircraft. 
4. At the end of that period, the non-Participant shall indicate whether it wishes to become a Participant in this Sector 
Understanding and to follow its disciplines; in the case of such confirmation, the non-Participant shall contribute, on 
an annual basis, to the costs associated with the implementation of this Sector Understanding. 
5. The interested non-Participant shall be considered a Participant 30 working days after the confirmation referred to in 
Article 4 of this Appendix.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/43

 
Appendix II 
Minimum premium rates 
This Appendix sets out the procedures to be used when determining the pricing of official support for a transaction 
subject to this Sector Understanding. Section 1 sets out the risk classification procedures; Section 2 sets out the 
minimum premium rates to be charged for new and used aircraft, and Section 3 sets out the minimum premium 
rates to be charged for spare engines, spare parts, conversion/major modification/refurbishing, maintenance and service 
contracts, and engine kits. 
S e c t i o n 1 
P r o c e d u r e s f o r r i s k c l a s s i f i c a t i o n 
1. 
The Participants have agreed on a list of risk classifications (the List) for buyers/borrowers; such risk classifications 
reflect the senior unsecured credit rating of buyers/borrowers using a common rating scale such as that of one of 
the credit rating agencies (CRA). 
2. 
The risk classifications will be made by experts nominated by the Participants against the risk categories set out in 
Table 1 of this Appendix. 
3. 
The List shall be binding at any stage of the transaction (e.g. campaign and delivery), subject to the provisions of 
Article 15 of this Appendix. 
I. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LIST OF RISK CLASSIFICATIONS 
4. 
The List shall be developed and agreed among the Participants prior to the entry into force of this Sector Under­
standing; it shall be maintained by the Secretariat and made available to all the Participants on a confidential basis. 
5. 
Upon request, the Secretariat may, on a confidential basis, inform an aircraft-producing non-Participant of the risk 
classification of a buyer/borrower; in this case, the Secretariat shall inform all Participants of the request. A non- 
Participant may, at any time, propose additions to the List to the Secretariat. A non-Participant proposing an 
addition to the List may participate in the risk-classification procedure as if it were an interested Participant. 
II. UPDATE OF THE LIST OF RISK CLASSIFICATIONS 
6. 
Subject to the provisions of Article 15 of this Appendix, the List may be updated on an ad hoc basis in the event 
that either a Participant signals, in any form, its intention to apply another risk classification than that on the List, 
or a Participant needs a risk classification for a buyer/borrower that is not yet on the List ( 1 ) ( 2 ). 
7. 
Any Participant shall, before any use of an alternative or new risk classification, send a request to the Secretariat for 
updating the List on the basis of an alternative or new risk classification. The Secretariat will circulate this request to 
all Participants within two working days, without mentioning the identity of the Participant who submitted the 
request. 
8. 
A period of ten ( 3 ) working days is allowed for interested Participants either to agree to or to challenge any 
proposed change to the List; a failure to respond within this period is considered as an agreement to the 
proposal. If at the end of the ten-day period, no challenge has been made to the proposal, the proposed change 
in the List is deemed to have been agreed. The Secretariat will modify the List accordingly and send a message via 
electronic mail within five working days; the revised List shall be binding from the date of that message.
EN 
L 38/44 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 1 ) An explanation shall be provided where the proposed risk-rating of a buyer/borrower exceeds the risk rating of the host sovereign. 
( 2 ) For transactions with an export contract value of less than USD 5 million, a Participant not wishing to follow the risk classification 
procedure set out in Articles 6 to 8 of this Appendix shall apply the risk classification “8” for the buyer/borrower which is the 
subject of the transaction and shall notify the transaction in accordance with Article 24 a) of this Sector Understanding. 
( 3 ) For transactions with an export contract value of less than USD 5 million, a five working-day period shall apply.

 
III. RESOLUTION OF DISAGREEMENTS 
9. 
In the event of a challenge to a proposed risk classification, interested Participants shall, at an expert level, make 
their best efforts to come to an agreement on the risk classification within a further period of ten working days 
after notification of a disagreement. All means necessary to resolve the disagreement should be explored, with the 
assistance of the Secretariat if necessary (e.g. conference calls or face-to-face consultations). If interested Participants 
agree to a risk classification within this ten working-day period, they shall inform the Secretariat of the outcome 
upon which the Secretariat will update the List accordingly and send a message via electronic mail in the following 
five working days. The adjusted List shall be binding from the date of that message. 
10. In case the disagreement is not resolved among the experts within ten working days, the issue will be referred to the 
Participants for decision on an appropriate risk classification, in a period that shall not exceed five working days. 
11. In the absence of a final agreement, a Participant may have recourse to a CRA to determine the risk classification of 
the buyer/borrower. In such cases, the Chairman of the Participants shall address a communication on behalf of the 
Participants to the buyer/borrower, within ten working days. The communication shall include the terms of 
reference for the risk assessment consultation as agreed among the Participants. The resulting risk classification 
will be registered in the List and become binding immediately following the Secretariat’s message to finalise the 
update procedure within five working days. 
12. Unless otherwise agreed, the cost of such recourse to a CRA shall be borne by the interested buyer/borrower. 
13. During the procedures set out in Articles 9 to 11 of this Appendix, the prevailing risk classification (when available 
on the List) shall remain applicable. 
IV. VALIDITY PERIOD OF CLASSIFICATIONS 
14. The valid risk classifications are the prevailing risk classifications as recorded in the List maintained by the 
Secretariat; indications and commitments of premium rates shall only be made in accordance with those risk 
classifications. 
15. Risk classifications have a 12-month maximum validity period from the date recorded in the List by the Secretariat 
for the purpose of the Participants providing indication and final commitments of premium rates; the validity 
period for a specific transaction may be extended by an additional 18 months once a commitment or a final 
commitment has occurred and premium holding fees are charged. Risk classifications may be subject to revision 
during the 12-month validity period in case of material changes to the risk profile of the buyer/borrower, such as a 
modification of a rating delivered by a CRA. 
16. Unless any Participant requests its update, at least 20 working days before the end of the relevant risk classification 
validity period, the Secretariat shall remove that risk classification from the next succeeding updated List. The 
Secretariat will circulate this update request to all Participants within two working days, without mentioning the 
identity of the Participant who submitted the request, and the procedures set out in Articles 9 to 11 of this 
Appendix shall apply. 
V. BUYER/BORROWER RISK CLASSIFICATION REQUEST 
17. If, at the campaign stage, a buyer/borrower requests an indication of its risk classification and if it is not yet on the 
List, that buyer/borrower may ask for an indicative risk classification from a CRA at its own expense. This risk 
classification shall not be included in the List; it may be used by the Participants as a basis for their own risk 
assessment.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/45

 
S e c t i o n 2 
M i n i m u m p r e m i u m r a t e s f o r n e w a n d u s e d a i r c r a f t 
I. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES 
18. Articles 19 to 60 of this Appendix set out the minimum premium rates corresponding to the risk classification of a 
buyer/borrower (or, if a different entity, the primary source of repayment of the transaction). 
19. The Participants may provide official support at or above the minimum premium rate provided that all the 
conditions below are fulfilled: 
a) The transaction is asset-backed, meeting all of the following criteria: 
1) A first priority security interest on or in connection with the aircraft and engines. 
2) In the case of a lease structure, assignment and/or a first priority security interest in connection with the lease 
payments. 
3) Cross default and cross collateralisation of all aircraft and engines owned legally and beneficially by the same 
parties under the proposed financing, whenever possible under the applicable legal regime. 
b) The transaction is structured to include, as a minimum, risk mitigants as set out in Table 1 below: 
Table 1 
Risk mitigants 
ASU Risk Category 
Risk Ratings 
Risk Mitigants 
TOTAL 
Of which at least “A” 
1 
AAA to BBB- 
0 
0 
2 
BB+ and BB 
0 
0 
3 
BB- 
1 
1 
4 
B+ 
2 
1 
5 
B 
2 
1 
6 
B- 
3 
2 
7 
CCC 
4 
3 
8 
CC to C 
4 
3 
20. For purposes of Article 19 of this Appendix: 
a) The Participants may select from the following risk mitigants: 
“A” risk mitigants: 
1) Reduced advance rate: each reduction of five percentage points from the advance rates referred to in Articles 
10 a) and b) of this Sector Understanding is equivalent to one “A” risk mitigant. In this case, the Participant 
shall not provide official support in any form in excess of the reduced advance rate. 
2) Straight line amortisation: repayment of principal in equal instalments is equivalent to one risk mitigant. 
3) Reduced repayment term: a repayment term that does not exceed 10 years is equivalent to one risk mitigant, 
irrespective of the maximum repayment term allowed.
EN 
L 38/46 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
“B” risk mitigants: 
1) Security deposit: each security deposit in an amount equal to one quarterly instalment of principal and 
interest is equivalent to one risk mitigant. The security deposit can be in the form of cash or a standby letter 
of credit. 
2) Lease payments in advance: lease payments in an amount equal to one quarterly instalment of principal and 
interest shall be paid one quarter in advance of each repayment date. 
3) Maintenance reserves in a form and amount reflective of market best practices. 
b) Subject to a prior notification, up to one of the “A” risk-mitigants may be replaced by a 15 % surcharge on the 
applicable minimum premium rate. 
21. Minimum premium rates to be applied to a transaction can be set prior to delivery, either at commitment, final 
commitment or otherwise at the commencement of a premium holding period with a defined duration. Final 
upfront premium rate, per annum spread, or a combination thereof to be applied to the transaction will comply 
with the minimum premium rate so established as well as mandatory risk mitigants prescribed in Article 19 b) of 
this Appendix as of the date on which the minimum premium rates were set. Such terms shall apply for the full 
length of the premium holding period and may only be revised following the expiry of that period, at which time 
the minimum premium rates and mandatory risk mitigants prescribed by the ASU then in force will apply and may 
be set for a subsequent premium holding period. 
22. Pursuant to Article 11 of this Sector Understanding, the minimum premium rates to be applied are composed of 
minimum risk-based rates (RBR) to which a market reflective surcharge (MRS) shall be added, in accordance with 
Articles 23 to 35 below. 
23. As of the entry into force of this Sector Understanding, the RBRs are: 
Table 2 
Risk-based rates 
ASU Risk Category 
Spreads (bps) 
Upfront (%) 
1 
89 
4,98 
2 
98 
5,49 
3 
116 
6,52 
4 
133 
7,49 
5 
151 
8,53 
6 
168 
9,51 
7 
185 
10,50 
8 
194 
11,03
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/47

 
24. The RBRs rates shall be reset on an annual basis, based on 4-year moving average of the annual Moody’s Loss 
Given Default (LGD). The appropriate LGD for this reset is based on the 1st Lien Senior Secured Bank Loans, and 
shall be calculated as follows: 
Table 3 
LGD Mapping 
4-year Moving Average 
LGD Considered 
>= 45 % 
25 % 
>= “35 %” < 45 % 
23 % 
>= “30 %” < 35 % 
21 % 
< 30 % 
19 % 
25. A RBR adjustment factor shall be determined as follows: 
LGD Considered = RBR adjustment factor 
19 % 
26. The RBR adjustment factor shall be multiplied by the RBRs set out in Table 2 above, in order to determine the reset 
RBRs. 
27. The RBRs resulting from the reset processes listed above will be effective as of 15 April of each following year. 
Once the RBRs resulting from the annual reset have been determined, the Secretariat shall inform immediately all 
Participants of the applicable rates and make them publicly available. 
28. For each risk category, a Market Reflective Surcharge shall be calculated as follows: 
MRS = B*[(0,5*MCS)-RBR] 
where: 
— B is a blend coefficient varying from 0,7 to 0,35 according to each risk category as per Table 4 below. 
— MCS is a 90-day moving average of Moody’s Median Credit Spreads (MCS) with an average life of 7 years. 
29. Where risk categories include more than one risk rating, the spreads shall be averaged. In risk category 1, the BBB- 
spread shall be used. 
30. The MCS spreads shall be discounted by 50 % to account for the asset-security. The MCS discounted spreads shall 
then be adjusted by a blend factor ranging from 70 % to 35 % as per Table 4 below, applied on the difference 
between the MCS discounted spreads and the RBR. Any negative spreads resulting from the blending shall not be 
deducted. 
Table 4 
Blend factors 
Risk-Ratings 
ASU Risk Category 
Blend Factor (%) 
AAA 
1 
70 
AA 
1 
70 
A 
1 
70 
BBB+ 
1 
70
EN 
L 38/48 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
Risk-Ratings 
ASU Risk Category 
Blend Factor (%) 
BBB 
1 
70 
BBB- 
1 
70 
BB+ 
2 
65 
BB 
2 
65 
BB- 
3 
50 
B+ 
4 
45 
B 
5 
40 
B- 
6 
35 
CCC 
7 
35 
CC 
8 
35 
C 
8 
35 
31. The MRS shall be updated on a quarterly basis and the resulting MCS shall become effective respectively on 
15 January, 15 April, 15 July and 15 October of each year. Following each update, the Secretariat shall inform 
immediately all Participants of the applicable MRS and the resulting minimum rates and make them available to 
Participants prior to the date these rates become effective. 
32. The increase in minimum premium rates resulting from the MRS update shall be capped at 10 % of the previous 
quarterly minimum premium rates. Therefore, the minimum premium rates (which result from adding the RBRs 
and the MRS) shall be capped at 200 % of the RBRs and floored at 100 % of the RBRs. 
33. The premium rates resulting from the application of Article 32 for risk categories 2–8 shall be adjusted, if 
necessary, to ensure that the premium rate for each risk category is no lower than the premium rate for the 
risk category that immediately precedes it (i.e. the premium rate for category “x” that is lower than the premium 
rate for category “x-1” will be adjusted upwards to the level of the premium rate for category “x-1”). 
34. In order to determine the minimum premium rates: 
— The following formula shall be used: 
Net MPR = MPR*(1+RTAS)*(1+RFAS)*(1+RMRS)*(1-CTCD)*(1+NABS) – CICD 
Where: 
— RTAS represents the repayment term adjustment surcharge set out in Article 12 b) of this Sector Under­
standing. 
— RFAS represents the repayment frequency adjustment surcharge set out in Articles 13 a) 1) and 2) of this 
Sector Understanding. 
— RMRS represents the risk mitigant replacement surcharge set out in Article 20 b) of this Appendix. 
— CTCD represents the Cape Town Convention Discount set out in Article 38 of this Appendix.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/49

 
— NABS represents the non-asset-backed surcharge set out in Articles 57 a) 4), 57 b) and 59 b) of this 
Appendix, as applicable. 
— CICD represents the conditional insurance coverage discount set out in Article 56 a) of this Appendix. 
— Premium may be paid either upfront or, over the life of the facility, as spreads expressed in basis points per 
annum, or in any combination of upfront rates and spreads. The upfront rates and spreads shall be calculated 
using the premium rate conversion model (PCM) so that the premium payable for a given transaction has the 
same NPV whether payable upfront, as a spread over the life of the facility, or a combination thereof. In 
transactions where, prior to the commencement of cover, terms are agreed or stipulated, which entail a 
reduction in the weighted average life, an upfront rate (calculated using the PCM) may be charged, which in 
terms of the resulting premium payable, corresponds to that payable in NPV terms under the spreads. 
35. The applicable minimum premium rates are published on the OECD website, using the format set out in Table 5 
below. 
Table 5 
Minimum premium rates 
(12-year repayment term, asset-backed transactions) 
Risk category 
Risk classification 
Minimum premium rates 
Per annum spreads (bps) 
Up-front (%) 
1 
AAA to BBB- 
2 
BB+ and BB 
3 
BB- 
4 
B+ 
5 
B 
6 
B- 
7 
CCC 
8 
CC to C 
II. REDUCTIONS OF THE MINIMUM PREMIUM 
36. Subject to the provisions of Article 37 of this Appendix, a reduction of the minimum premium rates established in 
accordance with sub-Section I above shall be allowed if: 
a) The asset-backed transaction relates to an aircraft object within the meaning of the Cape Town Protocol on 
Matters Specific to Aircraft Equipment, 
b) The operator of the aircraft object (and, if different, the borrower/buyer or lessor if, in the view of the Participant 
providing the official support, the structure of the transaction so warrants) is situated in a State which, at the 
time of disbursement in respect of the aircraft object, appears on the list of States which qualify for the reduction 
of the minimum premium rates (“Cape Town List”), and where applicable, in a territorial unit of that State that 
qualifies under Article 39 of this Appendix, and
EN 
L 38/50 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
c) The transaction relates to an aircraft object registered on the International Registry established pursuant to the 
Cape Town Convention, and the Aircraft Protocol thereto (Cape Town Convention or CTC). 
37. The reduction of the minimum premium rates established in accordance with sub-Section I above shall not exceed 
10 % of the applicable minimum premium rate. 
38. In order to be included on the Cape Town List, a State shall: 
a) Be a Contracting Party to the Cape Town Convention; 
b) Have made the qualifying declarations set out in Annex I to this Appendix; and 
c) Have implemented the Cape Town Convention, including the qualifying declarations, in its laws and regulations, 
as required, in such a way that the Cape Town Convention commitments are appropriately translated into 
national law. 
39. To qualify under Article 36 of this Appendix, a territorial unit shall: 
a) Be a territorial unit to which the Cape Town Convention has been extended; 
b) Be a territorial unit in respect of which the qualifying declarations set out in Annex I to this Appendix apply; 
and 
c) Have implemented the Cape Town Convention, including the qualifying declarations, in its laws and regulations, 
as required, in such a way that the Cape Town Convention commitments are appropriately translated into 
national law. 
40. An initial agreed Cape Town List shall be provided by the Participants to the Secretariat prior to the entry into force 
of this Sector Understanding. Updates to the Cape Town List shall be made in accordance with Articles 41 to 53 of 
this Appendix. 
41. Any Participant or non-Participant that provides official support for aircraft may propose to the Secretariat the 
addition of a State to the Cape Town List. Such proposal shall include, with respect to such State: 
a) All the relevant information in respect of the date of deposit of the Cape Town Convention ratification or 
accession instruments with the Depositary; 
b) A copy of the declarations made by the State which is proposed to be added to the Cape Town List; 
c) All relevant information in respect of the date on which the Cape Town Convention and the qualifying 
declarations have entered into force; 
d) An analysis which outlines the steps that the State which is proposed to be added to the Cape Town List has 
taken to implement the Cape Town Convention including the qualifying declarations in its laws and regulations, 
as required to ensure that the Cape Town Convention commitments are appropriately translated into national 
law; and
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/51

 
e) A duly completed questionnaire, the form of which is attached at Annex 2 of this Appendix (“CTC Question­
naire”) completed by at least one law firm qualified to give legal advice in relation to the relevant jurisdiction of 
the State which is proposed to be added to the Cape Town List. The completed CTC Questionnaire shall specify: 
i) The name(s) and office address(es) of the responding law firm(s); 
ii) The law firm’s relevant experience, which could include experience in legislative and constitutional processes 
as they relate to the implementation of international treaties in the State, and specific experience in CTC 
related issues including any experience in advising either a government on implementation and enforcement 
of the Cape Town Convention or the private sector, or enforcement of creditor’s rights in the State which is 
proposed to be added to the Cape Town List; 
iii) Whether the law firm is involved or intends to be involved in any transactions that may benefit from a 
reduction of minimum premium rates if the proposed State is added to the CTC list ( 4 ); and 
iv) The date on which the CTC Questionnaire has been completed. 
42. The Secretariat shall circulate a message via electronic mail within five working days containing the proposal. 
43. Any Participant or non-Participant which provides official support for aircraft may propose that a State be removed 
from the Cape Town List if they are of the view that such State has taken actions that are inconsistent with, or 
failed to take actions that are required by virtue of, that State’s Cape Town Convention commitments. To that end, 
the Participant or non-Participant shall include in a proposal for removal from the Cape Town List, a full 
description of the circumstances that have given rise to the proposal for deletion, such as any State actions that 
are inconsistent with its Cape Town Convention commitments, or any failure to maintain or enforce legislation 
required by virtue of that State’s Cape Town Convention commitments. The Participant or non-Participant who 
submits the proposal for removal from the Cape Town List shall provide any supporting documentation that may 
be available, and the Secretariat shall circulate a message via electronic mail within five working days containing 
such proposal. 
44. Any Participant or non-Participant which provides official support for aircraft may propose the reinstatement of a 
State that has been previously removed from the Cape Town List, where such reinstatement is justified by 
subsequent corrective actions or events. Such a proposal shall be accompanied by a description of the circum­
stances that gave rise to the removal of the State as well as a report of the subsequent corrective actions in support 
of reinstatement. The Secretariat shall circulate a message via electronic mail within five working days containing 
such proposal. 
45. The Participants may either agree to or challenge a proposal brought forward under Articles 41 to 44 of this 
Appendix within 20 working days from the date of submission of the proposal (“Period 1”). 
46. If at the end of Period 1, and in the case of Article 43 of this Appendix unless the proposal has been withdrawn by 
the proposing Participant or non-Participant providing evidence of corrective actions or events, no challenge has 
been made to the proposal, the proposed update to the Cape Town List is deemed to have been accepted by all 
Participants. The Secretariat will modify the Cape Town List accordingly and send a message via electronic mail 
within five working days. The updated Cape Town List shall take effect on the date of that message. 
47. In the event of a challenge to the proposed update of the Cape Town List, the challenging Participant or Participants 
shall, within Period 1, provide a written explanation of the basis of the challenge. Following circulation by the 
OECD Secretariat to all Participants of the written challenge, the Participants shall make best efforts to come to an 
agreement within a further ten-working day period (“Period 2”).
EN 
L 38/52 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 4 ) Together with information regarding any involvement (provided with due respect for confidentiality duties).

 
48. The Participants shall inform the Secretariat of the outcome of their discussions. If an agreement is reached during 
Period 2, the Secretariat will, if necessary, update the Cape Town List accordingly and send a message via electronic 
mail in the following five working days. The updated Cape Town List shall take effect on the date of that message. 
49. If no agreement is reached during Period 2, the Chairman of the Participants to this Sector Understanding (hereafter 
“the Chairman”) will make her/his best efforts to facilitate a consensus between the Participants, within 20 working 
days (“Period 3”) immediately following Period 2. If at the end of Period 3, no consensus is reached, a final 
resolution shall be achieved through the following procedures: 
a) The Chairman shall make a written recommendation with respect to the proposed update of the Cape Town List. 
The Chairman’s recommendation shall reflect the majority view emerging from the views openly expressed by at 
least the Participants that provide official support for aircraft exports. In the absence of a majority view, the 
Chairman shall make a recommendation based exclusively on the views expressed by the Participants and shall 
set out in writing the basis for the recommendation, including in the case of ineligibility, the eligibility criteria 
that were not met. 
b) The Chairman’s recommendation shall not disclose any information relating to Participants’ views or positions 
expressed in the context of the process set out in Articles 41 to 50 of this Appendix, and 
c) The Participants shall accept the recommendation of the Chairman. 
50. If, following a proposal submitted under Article 41 of this Appendix, the Participants or Chairman has determined 
that a State is not eligible to be added to the Cape Town List, a Participant or non-Participant may submit another 
proposal requesting that the Participants reconsider the State’s eligibility. The proposing Participant or non- 
Participant shall address the reasons substantiating the original determination of ineligibility. The proposing 
Participant or non-Participant shall also obtain and provide an updated CTC questionnaire. This new proposal 
shall be subject to the process set out in Articles 45 to 51 of this Appendix. 
51. In the event of any change to the list of qualified countries pursuant to the procedures set out in Article 49 of this 
Appendix, the Secretariat shall issue a message via electronic mail containing the updated Cape Town List within 
five working days of such change. The updated Cape Town List shall take effect on the date of that message. 
52. The addition, withdrawal or reinstatement of a State to the Cape Town List after disbursement in respect of an 
aircraft shall not affect MPRs established regarding such aircraft. 
53. In the context of the process set out in Articles 41 to 51 of this Appendix, the Participants shall not disclose any 
information relating to views or positions expressed. 
54. The Participants shall monitor the implementation of Articles 41 to 53 of this Appendix and review it annually or 
upon the request of any Participant. 
55. For new and used aircraft, the following adjustments to the applicable minimum premium rates may be applied: 
a) A discount of five basis points (per annum spreads) or 0,29 % (up-front) to the applicable minimum premium 
rates may be applied for officially supported transactions in the form of conditional insurance cover. 
b) The minimum premium rates shall be applied on the covered principal amount.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/53

 
III. NON ASSET-BACKED TRANSACTIONS 
56. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19 a) of this Appendix, the Participants may provide officially supported 
export credits for non-asset backed transactions, provided either of the following conditions is fulfilled: 
a) In the case of non-sovereign transactions: 
1) The maximum value of the export contract receiving official support is USD 15 million. 
2) The maximum repayment term shall be 10 years, 
3) No third party has a security interest in the assets being financed, and 
4) A minimum surcharge of 30 % shall be applied to the minimum premium rates established in accordance 
with sub-Section I above. 
b) In the case of a transaction with a sovereign or backed by an irrevocable and unconditional sovereign guarantee, 
a minimum surcharge shall, in accordance with Table 6 below, be applied to the minimum premium rates set 
out in accordance with sub-Section I above. 
Table 6 
Risk Category 
Surcharge (%) 
1 
0 
2 
0 
3 
0 
4 
10 
5 
15 
6 
15 
7 
25 
8 
25 
57. The provisions of Articles 36 to 52 of this Appendix do not apply to officially supported export credits provided 
pursuant to Article 56 of this Appendix. 
S e c t i o n 3 
M i n i m u m p r e m i u m r a t e s f o r g o o d s a n d s e r v i c e s o t h e r t h a n u s e d a i r c r a f t c o v e r e d 
b y P a r t 3 o f t h i s s e c t o r u n d e r s t a n d i n g 
58. When providing official support for all goods and services other than used aircraft covered by Part 3 of this Sector 
Understanding, the minimum premium rates shall be as follows: 
a) In the case of asset-backed transactions, the minimum premium rates shall be equal to the prevailing minimum 
spreads established in accordance with sub-Section I above and, in the case of pure cover, converted to upfront 
fees using the conversion model and the appropriate tenor. 
b) In the case of non asset-backed transactions, the minimum premium rates shall be equal to the prevailing 
minimum spreads established in accordance with sub-Section I above to which a surcharge of 30 % will be 
added, and, in the case of pure cover, converted to upfront fees using the conversion model and the appropriate 
tenor.
EN 
L 38/54 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
59. The provisions of Articles 36 to 52 of this Appendix shall apply to official support for asset backed spare engines 
covered by Article 20 a) and c) of this Sector Understanding and support under the first tiret of Article 21 a) 1) of 
this Sector Understanding. 
60. The provision of Article 55 of this Appendix shall also apply to official support for all goods and services other 
than used aircraft covered by Part 3 of this Sector Understanding.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/55

 
ANNEX 1 
QUALIFYING DECLARATIONS 
1. For the purpose of Section 2 of Appendix II, the term “qualifying declarations”, and all other references thereto in 
this Sector Understanding, means that a Contracting party to the Cape Town Convention (Contracting Party): 
a) Has made the declarations in Article 2 of this Annex; and 
b) Has not made the declarations in Article 3 of this Annex. 
2. The declarations for the purpose of Article 1 a) of this Annex are: 
a) Insolvency: State Party declares that it will apply the entirety of Alternative A under Article XI of the Aircraft 
Protocol to all types of insolvency proceeding and that the waiting period for the purposes of Article XI (3) of 
that Alternative shall be no more than 60 calendar days. 
b) Deregistration: State Party declares that it will apply Article XIII of the Aircraft Protocol. 
c) Choice of Law: State Party declares that it will apply Article VIII of the Aircraft Protocol. 
And at least one of the following (though both are encouraged): 
d) Method for Exercising Remedies: State Party declares under Convention Article 54(2) that any remedies available 
to the creditor under any provision of the Convention which are not expressed under the relevant provisions 
thereof to require application to a court may be exercised without leave of the court (the insertion “without court 
action and” to be recommended (but not required) before the words “leave of the court”); 
e) Timely Remedies: State Party declares that it will apply Article X of the Aircraft Protocol in its entirety (though 
clause 5 thereof, which is to be encouraged, is not required) and that the number of working days to be used for 
the purposes of the time-limit laid down in Article X (2) of the Aircraft Protocol shall be in respect of: 
1) The remedies specified in Articles 13(1)(a), (b) and (c) of the Convention (preservation of the aircraft objects 
and their value; possession, control or custody of the aircraft objects; and immobilisation of the aircraft 
objects), not more than that equal to ten calendar days; and 
2) The remedies specified in Articles 13(1)(d) and (e) of the Convention (lease or management of the aircraft 
objects and the income thereof and sale and application of proceeds from the aircraft equipment), not more 
than that equal to 30 calendar days. 
3. The declarations referred to in Article 1 b) of this Annex are the following: 
a) Relief Pending Final Determination: State Party shall not have made a declaration under Article 55 of the 
Convention opting out of Article 13 or Article 43 of the Convention; provided, however, that, if State Party 
made the declarations set out under Article 2 d) of this Annex, the making of a declaration under Article 55 of 
the Convention shall not prevent application of the Cape Town Convention discount. 
b) Rome Convention: State Party shall not have made a declaration under Article XXXII of the Aircraft Protocol 
opting out of Article XXIV of the Aircraft Protocol; and 
c) Lease Remedy: State Party shall not have made a declaration under Article 54(1) of the Convention preventing 
lease as a remedy. 
4. Regarding Article XI of the Aircraft Protocol, for Member States of the European Union, the qualifying declaration set 
out in Article 2 a) of this Annex shall be deemed made by a Member State, for purposes hereof, if the national law of 
such Member State was amended to reflect the terms of Alternative A under Article XI of the Aircraft Protocol (with 
a maximum 60 calendar days waiting period). As regards the qualifying declarations set out in Articles 2 c) and e) of 
this Annex, these shall be deemed satisfied, for the purpose of this Sector Understanding, if the laws of the European 
Union or the relevant Member States are substantially similar to that set out in such Articles of this Annex. In the 
case of Article 2 c) of this Annex, the laws of the European Union (Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 on the Law 
Applicable to Contractual Obligations) are agreed to be substantially similar to Article VIII of the Aircraft Protocol.
EN 
L 38/56 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX 2 
CAPE TOWN CONVENTION QUESTIONNAIRE 
I. PRELIMINARY INFORMATION 
Please provide the following information: 
1. The name and full address of the law firm completing the questionnaire. 
2. The law firm’s relevant experience, which could include experience in legislative and constitutional processes as they 
relate to the implementation of international treaties in the State, and specific experience in CTC related issues 
including any experience in advising either a government on implementation and enforcement of the Cape Town 
Convention or the private sector, or enforcement of creditor’s rights in the State which is proposed to be added to 
the Cape Town List. 
3. Whether the law firm is involved or intends to be involved in any transactions that may benefit from a reduction of 
minimum premium rates if the proposed State is added to the CTC list ( 1 ). 
4. The date on which this questionnaire was completed. 
II. QUESTIONS 
1. Qualifying declarations 
1.1. Has the State ( 2 ) made each of the qualifying declarations in accordance with the requirements of Annex 1 to 
Appendix II of the Sector Understanding on Export Credits for Civil Aircraft (“ASU”) (each a “Qualifying 
Declaration”)? In particular, regarding the declarations concerning “Method for Exercising Remedies” 
[Article 2 d)] and “Timely Remedies” [Article 2 e)], please specify if one or both of these have been made. 
1.2. Please describe the way in which the declarations made differ, if at all, from the requirements referred to in 
Question 1.1. 
1.3. Please confirm that the State has not made any of the declarations listed in Article 3 of Annex 1 to Appendix II 
of the ASU. 
2. Ratification 
1.1. Has the State ratified, accepted, approved or acceded to the Cape Town Convention and Aircraft Protocol 
(“Convention”)? Please could you state the date of ratification/accession and briefly describe the State’s process of 
accession to or ratification of the Convention? 
1.2. Do the Convention and Qualifying Declarations (“QD”) made have the force of law in the whole territory of the 
State without any further act, implementing legislation or the passing of any further law or regulation? 
1.3. If so, please briefly explain the process that gives the Convention and QDs the force of law.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/57 
( 1 ) Together with information regarding any involvement (provided with due respect for confidentiality duties). 
( 2 ) For the purposes of this questionnaire the “State” is the country that is being proposed for addition to the Cape Town Convention 
List under Appendix II, Section 2 II of the ASU. Where appropriate, these questions shall also be answered in respect of the laws of 
the particular “territorial unit” of the State in which the relevant operator of an aircraft [or other relevant body as set out in 
Article 35 (b) Appendix II] is located and “national law” shall be read as including a reference to the relevant local law.

 
3. Effect of national and local law 
1.1. Describe and list, if applicable, the implementing legislation and regulation(s) with respect to the Convention 
and each QD made by the State. 
1.2. Would the Convention and QDs made, as translated into national law ( 3 ) (“Convention and QDs”), overrule or 
have priority over any conflicting national law, regulation, order, judicial precedent or regulatory practice. If so, 
please describe the process by which this happens ( 4 ), and if not, please provide details. 
1.3. Are there any existing gaps in the implementation of the Convention and QDs? If so, please describe ( 5 ). 
4. Court and administrative decisions 
1.1. Please describe any matters, including judicial, regulatory, or administrative practice which could be expected to 
result in the courts, authorities or administrative bodies failing to give full force and effect to the Convention 
and QDs ( 6 ) ( 7 ). 
1.2. To your knowledge, has there been any judicial or administrative enforcement action taken by a creditor under 
the Convention? If so, please describe the action and indicate whether it was successful. 
1.3. To your knowledge, since ratification/implementation, have the courts in that State refused in any instance to 
enforce loan obligations of a debtor or guarantor in the State contrary to the Convention and QDs? 
1.4. To your knowledge, are there any other matters that may impact whether courts and administrative bodies 
should be expected to act in a manner consistent with the Convention and QDs? If so, please specify.
EN 
L 38/58 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 3 ) For the purposes of this questionnaire, “national law” refers to all national legislation of a State, including but not limited to, the 
Constitution and its Amendments, any federal, state and district law or regulation. 
( 4 ) For example, that (i) treaties prevail over other law as a matter of constitutional or similar framework law in State X; or 
(ii) legislation is required in State X, and has been enacted expressly setting out the priority of the Cape Town Treaty and/or 
superseding such other law; or (iii) the Cape Town Treaty or its implementing legislation is (a) more specific than other law (lex 
specialis derogat legi generali); and/or (b) later in time than such other law (lex posterior derogat legi priori), and as a result of (a) and/or 
(b) prevails over such other law. 
( 5 ) For example, is there any reason why the rights and remedies granted to creditors under the Convention, including those granted 
under the QDs, would not (a) be recognised as being effective; or (b) be sufficient by themselves, to enable such rights and remedies 
to be validly exercised in the State? 
( 6 ) An example of an administrative action for the purposes of this question might be the failure by the State to put in place any 
procedures or resources to give effect to a provision of the Convention or a Qualifying Declaration. Another example would be the 
failure by a State to put in place proper procedures in its aircraft registry for recording IDERAs. 
( 7 ) Please include in your analysis any precedent/decision relating to the recognition of rights of creditors, including ECAs, when 
relevant.

 
Appendix III 
Minimum interest rates 
The provision of official financing support shall not offset or compensate, in part or in full, for the appropriate 
premium rate to be charged for the risk of non-repayment pursuant to the provisions of Appendix II. 
1. MINIMUM FLOATING INTEREST RATE 
a) The minimum floating interest rate shall be the relevant benchmark interest rate for the currency as specified by 
the currency’s benchmark administrator (“floating benchmark rate”) ( 1 ), and the maturity corresponding to the 
frequency of interest payment of officially supported export credit, to which a margin benchmark calculated in 
accordance with Article 8 of this Appendix, shall be added. 
b) The floating interest rate setup mechanism shall vary according to the repayment profile chosen, as follows: 
1) When the repayment of principal and the payment of interest are combined in equal instalments, the relevant 
floating benchmark rate effective two business days prior to the loan drawdown date, according to the relevant 
currency and payment frequency shall be used to calculate the entire payment schedule, as if it were a fixed 
rate. The principal payment schedule shall then be fixed as well as the first interest payment. The second 
interest payment, and so on, shall be calculated based on the relevant floating benchmark rate effective two 
business days before the prior payment date over the outstanding principal balance initially established. 
2) When the repayment of principal is made in equal instalments, the relevant floating benchmark rate, according 
to the relevant currency and payment frequency, effective two business days before the loan drawdown date 
and prior to each payment date shall be used to calculate the following interest payment over the outstanding 
principal balance. 
c) Where official financing support is provided for floating rate loans, buyers/borrowers may have the option to 
switch from a floating rate to a fixed rate provided that the following conditions are fulfilled: 
1) The option is restricted to switching to the swap rate only; 
2) The option to switch shall only be exercised upon request, only once, and shall be reported accordingly with a 
reference to the reporting form initially sent to the Secretariat pursuant to Article 24 of this Understanding. 
2. MINIMUM FIXED INTEREST RATE 
The minimum fixed interest rate shall be either: 
a) The swap rate, concerning the relevant currency of the officially supported export credit and with a maturity 
equal to the interpolated rate for the two closest available annual periods to the weighted average life of the loan. 
The interest rate shall be set two business days prior to each drawdown date. 
OR 
b) The Commercial Interest Reference Rate (CIRR) established according to the provisions set out in Articles 3 to 7 
of this Appendix, 
to which, in both cases, the margin benchmark, calculated in accordance with Article 8 f) of this Appendix, shall be 
added. 
3. CONSTRUCTION OF CIRR 
a) A CIRR shall be published for the euro, the Japanese yen, the UK pound sterling, the US dollar and, pending the 
submission of a request by an Interested Participant, any of the eligible currencies set out in Article 9 of this 
Sector Understanding and calculated by adding a fixed margin of 120 basis points to one of the following three 
yields (the base rates): 
1) Five-year government bond yields for a repayment term up to and including nine years,
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/59 
( 1 ) Such language shall remain until a comprehensive list of specific benchmarks is agreed by Participants and at the latest until 
31 December 2022.

 
2) Seven-year government bond yields for over nine and up to and including 12 years, or 
3) Nine-year government bond yields for over 12 and up to and including 15 years. 
b) CIRR shall be calculated monthly using data from the previous month and notified to the Secretariat, no later than 
five days after the end of each month. The Secretariat shall then inform immediately all Participants of the 
applicable rates and make them publicly available. CIRR shall take effect on the 15th day of each month. 
c) A Participant or a non-Participant may request that a CIRR be established for the currency of a non-Participant. In 
consultation with the non-Participant, a Participant or the Secretariat on behalf of that non-Participant may make 
a proposal for the construction of the CIRR in that currency using the Common Line procedures set out in 
Articles 28 to 33 of this Sector Understanding. 
4. VALIDITY PERIOD OF CIRR 
a) Holding the CIRR: the CIRR applying to a transaction shall not be held for a period longer than six months from 
its selection (export contract date or any application date thereafter) to the credit agreement date. If the credit 
agreement is not signed within that limit, and the CIRR is reset for an additional six months, the new CIRR shall 
be committed at the rate prevailing at the date of reset. 
b) After the credit agreement date, the CIRR shall be applied for drawing periods that do not exceed six months. 
After the first six-month drawing period, the CIRR is reset for the next six months; the new CIRR shall be the one 
prevailing at the first day of the new six-month period and cannot be lower than the CIRR originally selected 
(procedure to be replicated for each subsequent six-month period of drawings). 
5. APPLICATION OF MINIMUM INTEREST RATES 
Within the provisions of the credit agreement the borrower shall not be allowed an option to switch from an 
officially supported floating rate financing to a pre-selected CIRR financing, nor be allowed to switch between a pre- 
selected CIRR and the short term market rate quoted on any interest payment date throughout the life of the loan. 
6. EARLY REPAYMENT OF FIXED INTEREST RATE LOANS 
In the event of a voluntary, early repayment of a fixed interest rate loan as determined in Article 2 of this Appendix, 
or any portion thereof or when the CIRR applied under the credit agreement is modified into a floating or a swap 
rate, the borrower shall compensate the institution providing official financing support for all costs and losses 
incurred as a result of such actions, including the cost to the government institution of replacing the part of the 
fixed rate cash inflow interrupted by the early repayment. 
7. IMMEDIATE CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES 
When market developments require the notification of an amendment to a CIRR during the course of a month, the 
amended rate shall be implemented ten working days after notification of this amendment has been received by the 
Secretariat. 
8. MARGIN BENCHMARK 
a) A three-month floating benchmark rate for US dollar margin benchmark shall be calculated monthly in 
accordance with paragraph b), using data notified to the Secretariat in accordance with paragraph c), and shall 
take effect on the 15th day of each month. Once calculated, the margin benchmark shall be notified by the 
Secretariat to the Participants and shall be made publicly available. 
b) The three-month floating benchmark rate for US dollar margin benchmark shall be a rate equivalent to the 
average of the lowest 50 % of the margins over: (i) three-month floating benchmark rate for US dollar charged for 
floating rate transactions; and (ii) three-month floating benchmark rate for US dollar as interpolated by swapping 
the fixed rate issuance to a floating rate equivalent charged for fixed rate transactions or capital market issuances. 
In either case, the margins included in the monthly benchmark reports submitted by relevant Participants shall be 
those from the three full calendar months preceding the effective date set out in paragraph a) above. Trans­
actions/issuances that are used in the calculation of the margin benchmark shall meet the following conditions: 
1) 100 % unconditional guarantee transactions denominated in US dollars; and 
2) Official support provided in respect of aircraft valued at or above USD 35 million (or its equivalent in any 
other eligible currency).
EN 
L 38/60 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
c) Participants shall report a margin at the time it becomes known and that margin will remain on the Participant’s 
margin benchmark report for three full calendar months. In the case of individual transactions with multiple 
pricing events, there shall be no attempt to match subsequent pricing events to ex post notifications. 
d) Participants shall notify transactions as of the date on which the long-term margin is realised. For bank mandated 
deals (including PEFCO), the date on which the margin is realised would be the earliest of the following: 
(i) issuance of a final commitment by the Participant; (ii) setting of the margin post-commitment; (iii) loan 
drawdown; and (iv) setting of the long-term margin post-drawdown. In the case of several drawdowns 
occurring under the same bank mandate at the same margin, notification shall only be made in respect of the 
first aircraft. For loans funded by way of capital market issuance, the date on which the margin is realised shall be 
the date on which the long term rate is set which is typically the bond issuance date. In the case of several 
drawdowns occurring under the same bond and at the same margin, notification shall only be made in respect of 
the first aircraft. 
e) The three-month floating benchmark rate for US dollar margin benchmark shall be applicable to a floating rate 
transaction and shall be set no earlier than the date of the final commitment. 
f) For a fixed rate transaction, the margin benchmark applicable to the transaction shall be determined by swapping 
the three-month floating benchmark rate for US dollar margin benchmark into an equivalent spread over the 
applicable fixed rate, as determined in Article 2 of this Appendix, no earlier than the final commitment date and 
shall be set no earlier than that date. 
g) The Participants shall monitor the margin benchmark and shall review the margin benchmark mechanism upon 
the request of any Participant.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/61

 
Appendix IV 
Reporting form 
a) Basic information 
1. 
Notifying country 
2. 
Notification date 
3. 
Name of notifying authority/agency 
4. 
Identification number 
b) Buyer/borrower/guarantor information 
5. 
Name and country of buyer 
6. 
Name and country of borrower 
7. 
Name and country of guarantor 
8. 
Status of buyer/borrower/guarantor, e.g. sovereign, private bank, other private 
9. 
Risk classification of buyer/borrower/guarantor 
c) Financial terms and conditions 
10. In what form is official support provided, e.g. pure cover, official financing support 
11. If official financing support is provided, is it a direct credit/refinancing/interest rate support 
12. Description of the transaction supported, including the manufacturer, aircraft model and number of aircraft. 
13. Final commitment date 
14. Currency of credit 
15. Credit amount, according to the following scale in USD millions: 
Category 
Credit Amount 
I 
0–200 
II 
200–400 
III 
400–600 
IV 
600–900 
V 
900–1 200 
VI 
1 200–1 500 
VII 
1 500–2 000 (*) 
(*) Indicate the number of USD 300 million multiples in excess of USD 2 000 million. 
16. Percentage of official support 
17. Repayment term 
18. Repayment profile and frequency – including, where appropriate, weighted average life 
19. Length of time between the starting point of credit and the first repayment of principal
EN 
L 38/62 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
20. Interest rates: 
— Minimum interest rate applied 
— Margin benchmark applied 
21. Total premium charged by way of: 
— Up-front fees (in percentage of the credit amount) or 
— Spreads (basis points per annum above the applied interest rate) 
— As appropriate, please indicate separately the 15 % surcharge applied in accordance with Appendix II 
Article 20 b). 
22. In the case of direct credit/financing, fees charged by way of: 
— Arrangement/Structuring fee 
— Commitment/Premium holding fee 
— Administration fee 
23. Premium holding period 
24. In the case of pure cover, premium holding fees 
25. Transaction structuring terms: risk mitigants/premium surcharge applied 
26. As appropriate, an indication of the impact of the Cape Town Convention on the premium rate applied
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/63

 
Appendix V 
List of definitions 
All-In Cost Equivalence: the net present value of premium rates, interest rate costs and fees charged for a direct credit 
as a percentage of the direct credit amount is equal to the net present value of the sum of premium rates, interest rate 
costs and fees charged under pure cover as a percentage of the credit amount under pure cover. 
Asset-Backed: a transaction that meets the conditions set out in Article 19 a) of Appendix II. 
Buyer/Borrower: includes (but is not limited to) commercial entities such as airlines and lessors, as well as sovereign 
entities (or if a different entity, the primary source of repayment of the transaction). 
Buyer Furnished Equipment: equipment furnished by the buyer and incorporated in the aircraft during the manu­
facture/refurbishment process, on or before delivery, as evidenced by the Bill of Sale from the manufacturer. 
Cape Town Convention: refers to the Cape Town Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment and the 
Protocol thereto on Matters specific to Aircraft Equipment. 
Commitment: any statement, in whatever form, whereby the willingness or intention to provide official support is 
communicated to the recipient country, the buyer, the borrower, the exporter or the financial institution, including 
without limitation, eligibility letters, marketing letters. 
Common Line: agreement of the Participants for a given transaction, or in special circumstances on specific financial 
terms and conditions for official support; such common line shall prevail over the relevant provisions of this Sector 
Understanding only for the transaction or in the circumstances specified in the common line. 
Conditional Insurance Cover: official support, which in the case of a default on payment for defined risks provides 
indemnification to the beneficiary after a specified waiting period; during the waiting period the beneficiary does not 
have the right to payment from the Participant. Payment under conditional insurance cover is subject to the validity and 
the exceptions of the underlying documentation and of the underlying transaction. 
Conversion: A major change in the type design of an aircraft through its conversion into a different type of aircraft 
(including the conversion of a passenger aircraft into a water bomber, cargo aircraft, search and rescue, surveillance 
aircraft, or business jet), subject to certification by the responsible Civil Aviation Authority. 
Country Risk Classification: the prevailing country risk classification of the Participants to the Arrangement on 
Officially Supported Export Credits as published on the OECD website. 
Credit Rating Agency: one of the internationally reputable rating agencies or any other rating agency that is acceptable 
to the Participants. 
Engine Kits: a set of parts introduced to improve reliability, durability and/or on-wing performance procurement 
through introduction of technology.
EN 
L 38/64 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
Export Credit: an insurance, guarantee or financing arrangement which enables a foreign buyer of exported goods 
and/or services to defer payment over a period of time; an export credit may take the form of a supplier credit extended 
by the exporter, or of a buyer credit, where the exporter’s bank or other financial institution lends to the buyer (or its 
bank). 
Final Commitment: a final commitment exists when the Participant commits to precise and complete financial terms 
and conditions, either through a reciprocal agreement or by a unilateral act. 
Firm Contract: an agreement between the manufacturer and the person taking delivery of the aircraft or engines as 
buyer, or, in connection with a sale-leaseback arrangement, as lessee under a lease with a term of at least five years, 
setting forth a binding commitment (excluding those relating to then unexercised options), where non-performance 
entails legal liability. 
Interested Participant: a Participant that (i) provides official support for airframe or aircraft engines completely or 
partially manufactured in its territory; (ii) has an existing substantial commercial interest or has experience with the 
buyer/borrower concerned; or (iii) has been requested by a manufacturer/exporter to provide official support to the 
buyer/borrower in question. 
Interest Rate Support: can take the form of an arrangement between on the one hand a government, or an institution 
acting for or on behalf of a government and, on the other hand, banks or other financial institutions which allows the 
provision of fixed rate export finance at or above the relevant minimum fixed interest rate. 
Major Modification/Refurbishing: operations of reconfiguration or upgrading of either a passenger or cargo aircraft. 
Net Price: the price for an item invoiced by the manufacturer or supplier thereof, after accounting for all price 
discounts and other cash credits, less all other credits or concessions of any kind related or fairly allocable thereto, 
as stated in a binding representation by each of the aircraft and engine manufacturers the engine manufacturer 
representation is required only when it is relevant according to the form of the purchase agreement – or service 
provider, as the case may be, and supported by documentation required by the provider of official support to 
confirm that net price. All import duties and taxes (e.g. VAT) are not included in the net price. 
New Aircraft: see Article 8 a) of this Sector Understanding. 
Non-Asset-Backed: a transaction that does not meet the conditions set out in Article 19 a) of Appendix II. 
Non-Sovereign Transaction: a transaction that does not meet the description set out in Article 57 b) of Appendix II. 
Premium Holding Period: subject to Article 36 b) of Appendix II, period(s) during which a premium rate and related 
mandatory risk mitigants offered for a transaction are being maintained; not to exceed 18 months from the date it has 
been set until the final disbursement. 
Premium Rate Conversion Model: model agreed by and made available to the Participants, to be used for the purpose 
of this Sector Understanding in order to convert up-front premium fees into spreads and vice versa, in which the 
interest rate and the discount rate used shall be 4,6 %; such rate shall be reviewed regularly by the Participants. 
Prior Notification: a notification made at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment, using the reporting 
form set out in Appendix IV.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/65

 
Pure Cover: Official support provided by or on behalf of a government by a way of export credit guarantee or 
insurance only, i.e. which does not benefit from official financing support. 
Repayment Term: the period beginning at the Starting Point of Credit and ending on the contractual date of the final 
repayment of principal. 
Sovereign Transaction: a transaction that meets the description set out in Article 56 b) of Appendix II. 
Starting Point of Credit: for the sale of aircraft including helicopters, spare engines and parts, at the latest the actual 
date when the buyer takes physical possession of the goods, or the weighted mean date when the buyer takes physical 
possession of the goods. For services, the latest starting point of credit is the date of the submission of the invoices to 
the client or acceptance of service by the client. 
Swap Rate: a fixed rate equal to the semi-annual rate to swap floating rate debt to fixed rate debt (Offer side), posted 
on any independent market index provider, such as Telerate, Bloomberg, Reuters, or its equivalent, at 11:00 am New 
York time, two business days prior to the loan drawdown date. 
Weighted Average Life: the time it takes to retire one-half of the principal of a credit; this is calculated as the sum of 
time (in years) between the starting point of credit and each principal repayment weighted by the portion of principal 
repaid at each repayment date.
EN 
L 38/66 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX IV 
SECTOR UNDERSTANDING ON EXPORT CREDITS FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY, CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION AND 
ADAPTATION, AND WATER PROJECTS 
The purpose of this Sector Understanding is to provide adequate financial terms and conditions to projects in selected 
sectors identified including under international initiatives as significantly contributing to climate change mitigation, 
including renewable energy, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions’ reduction and high energy efficiency projects, climate 
change adaptation, as well as water projects. The Participants to this Sector Understanding agree that the financial terms 
and conditions of the Sector Understanding, which complements the Arrangement, shall be implemented in a way that 
is consistent with the Purpose of the Arrangement. 
CHAPTER I 
Scope of the sector understanding 
1. SCOPE OF APPLICATION FOR PROJECTS IN RENEWABLE ENERGY SECTORS ELIGIBLE TO APPENDIX I 
a) This Sector Understanding sets out the financial terms and conditions that apply to officially supported export 
credits relating to contracts in the eligible sectors listed in Appendix I of this Sector Understanding for: 
1) The export of complete renewable energies plants or parts thereof, comprising all components, equipment, 
materials and services (including the training of personnel) directly required for the construction and commis­
sioning of such plants. 
2) The modernisation of existing renewable energies plants in cases where the economic life of the plant is likely 
to be extended by at least the repayment period to be awarded. If this criterion is not met, the terms of the 
Arrangement apply. 
b) This Sector Understanding does not apply to items located outside the power plant site boundary for which the 
buyer is usually responsible, in particular, water supply not directly linked to the power production plant, costs 
associated with land development, roads, construction villages, power lines and switchyard, as well as costs arising 
in the buyer’s country from official approval procedures (e.g. site permits, construction permit), except: 
1) In cases where the buyer of the switchyard is the same as the buyer of the power plant and the contract is 
concluded in relation to the original switchyard for that power plant, the terms and conditions for the original 
switchyard shall not exceed those for the renewable energies power plant; and 
2) The terms and conditions for sub-stations, transformers and transmission lines with a minimum voltage 
threshold of 60 kV located outside the renewable energies power plant site boundary shall not be more 
generous than those for the renewable energies power plant. 
2. SCOPE OF APPLICATION FOR PROJECTS IN CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION SECTORS ELIGIBLE TO APPENDIX II 
a) This Sector Understanding sets out the financial terms and conditions that apply to officially supported export 
credits relating to contracts in a sector listed in Appendix II of this Sector Understanding. This list of sectors and, 
when applicable, corresponding technology-neutral performance criteria used to define a project’s eligibility, may 
be modified over time in accordance with the review provisions set out in Article 10 of this Sector Understanding. 
b) Such contracts shall relate to the export of complete projects or parts thereof, comprising all components, 
equipment, materials and services (including the training of personnel) directly required for the construction 
and commissioning of an identifiable project, providing that: 
1) The project should result in low to zero carbon emissions, or CO 2 equivalent, and/or in high energy efficiency; 
2) The project should be designed to meet, as a minimum, the performance standards as set out in Appendix II; 
and 
3) The terms and conditions provided shall be extended only to address specific financial disadvantages 
encountered by a project, and shall be based on the individual financial needs and specific market conditions 
of each project.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/67

 
3. SCOPE OF APPLICATION FOR ADAPTATION PROJECTS ELIGIBLE TO APPENDIX III 
a) This Sector Understanding sets out the financial terms and conditions that apply to officially supported export 
credits relating to contracts for projects that meet the criteria set out in Appendix III of this Sector Understanding. 
b) Such contracts shall relate to the export of complete projects or parts thereof, comprising all components, 
equipment, materials and services (including the training of personnel) directly required for the execution and 
commissioning of an identifiable project, providing that: 
1) The conditions set out in Appendix III are met; 
2) The terms and conditions provided shall be extended only to address specific financial disadvantages 
encountered by a project, and shall be based on the individual financial needs and specific market conditions 
of each project. 
c) This Sector Understanding applies to the modernisation of existing projects, to take into consideration adaptation 
concerns, in cases where the economic life of the project is likely to be extended by at least the repayment period 
to be awarded. If this criterion is not met, the terms of the Arrangement apply. 
4. SCOPE OF APPLICATION FOR WATER PROJECTS 
This Sector Understanding sets out the financial terms and conditions that apply to officially supported export credits 
relating to contracts for the export of complete projects or parts thereof related to the supply of water for human use 
and wastewater treatment facilities: 
a) Infrastructure for the supply of drinking water to municipalities, including to households and small businesses, 
i.e. water purification for the purpose of obtaining drinking water and distribution network (including leakage 
control). 
b) Wastewater collection and treatment facilities, i.e. collection and treatment of household and industrial wastewater 
and sewage, including processes for the re-use or recycling of water and the treatment of sludge directly associated 
with these activities. 
c) The modernisation of such facilities in cases where the economic life of the plant is likely to be extended by at 
least the repayment period to be awarded. If this criterion is not met, the provisions of the Arrangement apply. 
CHAPTER II 
Provisions for export credits 
5. MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS 
a) For officially supported export credits relating to contracts in the sectors listed in Appendix I, and for water 
projects defined in Article 4 of this Sector Understanding, the maximum repayment term is 18 years. 
b) For officially supported export credits relating to contracts of a value of at least SDR 10 million in the project 
classes listed in Appendix II, the maximum repayment term is set out as follows: 
1) For contracts in Project Class A: 18 years. 
2) For contracts in Project Class B and Project Class C: 15 years. 
c) For officially supported export credits relating to contracts of a value of less than SDR 10 million in the project 
classes listed in Appendix II, the maximum repayment term is set out as follows: 
1) For Category I countries as defined in Article 11 of the Arrangement, the maximum repayment term is five 
years, with the possibility of agreeing up to eight-and-a-half years when the procedures for prior notification 
set out in Article 7 of this Sector Understanding are followed. 
2) For Category II countries, the maximum repayment term is 10 years. 
3) Notwithstanding subparagraphs 1) and 2) above, for non-nuclear power plants as defined in Article 14 of the 
Arrangement, the maximum repayment term is 12 years.
EN 
L 38/68 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
d) For officially supported export credits relating to contracts of a value of at least SDR 10 million for projects 
supported in conformity with Appendix III, the maximum repayment term is 15 years. 
6. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST 
a) The Participants shall apply a profile of repayment of principal and payment of interest as specified in 
subparagraph 1) or 2) below: 
1) Repayment of principal shall be made in equal instalments. 
2) Repayment of principal and payment of interest combined shall be made in equal instalments. 
b) Principal shall be repaid and interest shall be paid no less frequently than every six months and the first instalment 
of principal and interest shall be made no later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
c) On an exceptional and duly justified basis, official support may be provided on terms other than those set out in 
paragraphs a) and b) above. The provision of such support shall be explained by an imbalance in the timing of the 
funds available to the obligor and the debt service profile available under an equal, semi-annual repayment 
schedule, and shall comply with the following criteria: 
1) No single repayment of principal or series of principal payments within a six-month period shall exceed 25 % 
of the principal sum of the credit. 
2) Principal shall be repaid no less frequently than every 12 months. The first repayment of principal shall be 
made no later than 18 months after the starting point of credit and no less than 2 % of the principal sum of 
the credit shall have been repaid 18 months after the starting point of credit. 
3) Interest shall be paid no less frequently than every 12 months and the first interest payment shall be made no 
later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
4) The maximum weighted average life of the repayment period shall not exceed 60 % of the maximum available 
tenor. 
d) Interest due after the starting point of credit shall not be capitalised. 
CHAPTER III 
Procedures 
7. PRIOR NOTIFICATION 
a) A Participant intending to provide support in accordance with the provisions of this Sector Understanding, shall 
give prior notification at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment, in accordance with: 
1) Article 46 of the Arrangement if the support is extended pursuant to Article 1, 2 or 4 of this Sector Under­
standing; 
2) Article 45 of the Arrangement if the support is extended pursuant to Article 3 of this Sector Understanding. 
b) For projects falling in the Project Classes listed in Appendix II of this Sector Understanding, such notifications 
shall include an enhanced description of the project in order to demonstrate how the project complies with the 
criteria for support, as set out in Article 2 b) of this Sector Understanding. 
c) For projects supported in conformity with Appendix III of this Sector Understanding, such notification shall 
include: 
1) An enhanced description of the project in order to demonstrate how the project complies with the criteria for 
support, as set out in Article 3 b) of this Sector Understanding, and 
2) Access to the outcome of the independent third-party review required in Appendix III. 
d) Notwithstanding paragraph a) 1) above, if the notifying Participant intends to provide support with a repayment 
term in excess of 15 years and/or in accordance with Article 6 c) of this Sector Understanding, it shall give prior 
notification at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment in accordance with Article 45 of the 
Arrangement.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/69

 
e) A Participant shall inform all other Participants of its final decision following a discussion, to facilitate the review 
of the body of experience. 
CHAPTER IV 
Monitoring and review 
8. FUTURE WORK 
The Participants agree to examine the following issues: 
a) Term-adjusted risk-premia. 
b) Conditions for low emission/high energy efficiency fossil fuel power plants including definition of CCUS- 
readiness. 
c) Net zero energy buildings. 
d) Fuel cell projects. 
9. MONITORING AND REVIEW 
a) The Secretariat shall report annually on the implementation of this Sector Understanding. 
b) The Participants shall regularly review the scope and other provisions of this Sector Understanding and at the 
latest by the end of 2020. 
c) Appendix II of this Sector Understanding shall be reviewed at regular intervals, including upon the request of a 
Participant, with the view to assessing whether any Project Class and/or Type should be added to, or removed 
from, or whether any thresholds should be changed in, that Appendix. Proposals for new Project Classes and/or 
Types shall be supported by information on how projects within such a Class/Type should fulfil the criteria set out 
in Article 2 b) and shall follow the methodology set out in Appendix IV of this Sector Understanding. 
d) The Participants shall undertake a review of Appendix III of this Sector Understanding by the end of 2020, with a 
view to assessing the international initiatives related to adaptation, market conditions, and the body of experience 
developed from the notification process to determine if the definitions, project criteria, terms and conditions 
should be continued and or amended. 
e) After 31 December 2027, the terms and conditions related to Appendix III shall be discontinued unless the 
Participants agree otherwise.
EN 
L 38/70 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
Appendix I 
Renewable energies sectors 
The following renewable energies sectors shall be eligible for the financial terms and conditions set out in this Sector 
Understanding provided that their impacts are addressed in accordance with the 2012 Recommendation of the Council 
on Common Approaches on Officially Supported Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Diligence ( 1 ) (as 
subsequently amended by Members of the OECD Working Group on Export Credits and Credit Guarantee (ECG) and 
adopted by the OECD Council): 
a) Wind energy ( 2 ). 
b) Geothermal energy. 
c) Tidal and tidal stream power. 
d) Wave power. 
e) Osmotic power. 
f) Solar photovoltaic power. 
g) Solar thermal energy. 
h) Ocean thermal energy. 
i) Bio-energy: all sustainable landfill gas, sewage treatment plant gas, biogas energy or fuel derived from biomass energy 
installations. “Biomass” shall mean the biodegradable fraction of products, waste and residues from agriculture 
(including vegetal and animal substances), forestry and related industries, as well as the biodegradable fraction of 
industrial and municipal waste. 
j) Hydro power. 
k) Energy efficiency in Renewable Energies projects.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/71 
( 1 ) It is understood that the 2012 Recommendation applies equally to projects that are not eligible for these financial terms and 
conditions. 
( 2 ) The maximum repayment term for jack-up rigs used in the installation of wind turbines shall be 12 years.

 
Appendix II 
Climate change mitigation sectors 
PROJECT 
CLASS 
DEFINITION 
RATIONALE 
STANDARDS USED 
REPAYMENT TERMS 
Project Class A: Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage 
TYPE 1: 
Fossil Fuel 
Power 
Plants with 
Operational 
Carbon 
Capture 
Utilisation 
and Storage 
(CCUS) 
A process consisting of 
the separation of CO 2 
stream from the 
emissions produced by 
fossil fuel generation 
sources, transport to a 
storage site, for the 
purposes of environ­
mentally safe and 
permanent geological 
storage of CO 2 or use as 
an input or feedstock to 
create products or 
services. 
To achieve low carbon 
emission levels for fossil 
fuel power sources. 
Carbon intensity shall 
achieve a level equal to 
or less than 350 metric 
ton CO 2 per GWh 
vented to atmosphere ( 1 ); 
Or 
In the case of all projects, 
a capture and storage 
rate that would reduce 
the plant’s carbon 
emissions by 65 % or 
greater; 
Or 
The capture rate has to 
be at least 85 % of CO 2 
emitted by the 
equipment included in 
the application for offi­
cially supported export 
credits. The 85 % is to 
apply at normal 
operating conditions. 
18 years 
Project Class A: Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage 
TYPE 2: 
CCUS 
Projects as 
such 
A process consisting of 
the separation of CO 2 
from industrial or energy 
generation sources, 
transport to a storage site, 
for the purposes of envi­
ronmentally safe and 
permanent geological 
storage of CO 2 or use as 
an input or feedstock to 
create products or 
services. 
To significantly reduce 
carbon emissions from 
existing sources. 
In the case of all projects, 
a capture and storage 
rate that would reduce 
the industrial or energy 
generation carbon 
emissions by 65 % or 
greater; 
Or 
The capture rate has to 
be at least 85 % of CO 2 
emitted by the 
equipment included in 
the application for offi­
cially supported export 
credits. The 85 % is to 
apply at normal 
operating conditions. 
18 years
EN 
L 38/72 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 1 ) In the case of a plant fuelled by natural gas, significantly lower carbon intensity is expected to be achieved.

 
PROJECT 
CLASS 
DEFINITION 
RATIONALE 
STANDARDS USED 
REPAYMENT TERMS 
Project Class B: Fossil Fuel Substitution 
TYPE 1: 
Waste to 
Energy 
Unit dedicated to 
generating energy by 
thermal treatment 
(including gasification) of 
mixed stream solid waste. 
To offset GHG emissions 
from the use of conven­
tional power and by 
reducing future GHG 
such as methane that 
would normally emanate 
from the waste. 
In the case of a steam 
cycle, a boiler (or steam 
generator) energy 
conversion efficiency of 
at least 75 % based on 
low heating value 
(LHV) ( 2 ). 
In the case of gasifi­
cation, a gasifier effi­
ciency of at least 65 % 
LHV ( 3 ). 
15 years 
Project Class B: Fossil Fuel Substitution 
TYPE 2: 
Hybrid 
Power 
Plants 
A power plant that 
generates electric power 
from both a renewable 
energy source and a fossil 
fuel source. 
To meet the requirement 
of plant availability, a 
fossil fuel generating 
source is required for 
those periods when 
power from the 
renewable energy source 
is not available or suffi­
cient. The fossil fuel 
source enables the usage 
of renewable energy in 
the hybrid plant, thereby 
achieving a significant 
carbon reduction 
compared with standard 
fossil fuel plant. 
Model 1: 
Two separate generation 
sources: one Renewable 
Energy and one fossil 
fuel. 
Project shall be designed 
such that at least 50 % of 
its projected total annual 
energy output originates 
from the plant’s 
renewable energy source. 
Model 2: 
Single generation source 
using the combination of 
renewable and fossil fuel. 
The project shall be 
designed such that at 
least 75 % of the useful 
energy produced is 
derived from the 
renewable source. 
15 years
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/73 
( 2 ) Boiler (or steam generator) energy conversion efficiency = (Net heat exported by the steam/heat or calorific value [LHV] provided by 
the fuel) (× 100 %). 
( 3 ) Gasifier efficiency = (Calorific value of gas per kg of fuel used/average net calorific value (LHV) of 1 kg of fuel) (× 100 %).

 
PROJECT 
CLASS 
DEFINITION 
RATIONALE 
STANDARDS USED 
REPAYMENT TERMS 
Project Class C: Energy Efficiency 
TYPE 1: 
Combined 
Heat & 
Power 
projects 
Simultaneous generation 
of multiple forms of 
energy (electrical, mech­
anical and thermal) in a 
single integrated system. 
Output of the CHP plant 
shall include electric or 
mechanical energy and 
heat for commercial 
industrial and/or resi­
dential use. 
Up to two thirds of the 
primary energy used to 
generate electricity in 
conventional thermal 
power plants is lost in the 
form of heat. Combined 
heat and power (CHP) 
generation can therefore 
be an effective GHG 
mitigation option. CHP is 
possible with all heat 
machines and fuels 
(including biomass and 
solar thermal) from a few 
kW-rated to 1 000 MW 
steam-condensing power 
plants ( 4 ). 
Overall efficiency of at 
least 75 % based on low 
heating value (LHV) ( 5 ). 
15 years 
Project Class C: Energy Efficiency 
TYPE 2: 
District 
heating 
and/or 
cooling 
Network which carries/ 
distributes thermal energy 
from energy producing 
unit to end use. 
To improve the efficiency 
of heating of districts by 
building piping networks 
for steam and/or hot 
water with substantial 
thermal efficiency, both 
by minimising losses of 
piping and converters, 
and by increasing the 
amount of utilisation of 
waste heat. 
District cooling is an 
integrative technology 
that can make significant 
contributions to reducing 
emissions of carbon 
dioxide and air pollution 
and to increasing energy 
security e.g. via substi­
tution of individual air- 
conditioners. 
The district piping 
thermal conductivity 
shall be less than 80 % of 
the relevant thermal 
conductivity required by 
the European standard 
EN253:2009 (to be 
reviewed when this 
standard is updated). 
15 years
EN 
L 38/74 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 4 ) IPCC Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007, http://www.ipcc.ch/publications_and_data/ar4/wg3/en/ch4s4-3-5.html 
( 5 ) The total system efficiency (η o ) of a CHP system is the sum of the net useful power output (W E ) and net useful thermal outputs 
(ΣQ TH ) divided by the total fuel input (Q FUEL ), as shown below: 
η o ¼ W E þ ΣQ TH 
Q FUEL

EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/75
 
PROJECT CLASS 
DEFINITION 
RATIONALE 
STANDARDS USED 
REPAYMENT TERMS 
Project Class C: Energy Efficiency 
TYPE 3: 
Smart Grids 
Integrated, tech­
nologically advanced 
electricity networks with 
improved dynamic capa­
bilities to monitor and 
control the input and 
output of all their 
constituent technical 
components (such as 
power generation, 
Network Management 
Solutions, High Voltage 
Direct Current (HVDC) 
converters and systems, 
Flexible Alternating 
Current Transmission 
Systems (FACTS), Special 
Power Systems (SPS), 
transmission, 
distribution, storage, 
Smart Grid Power Elec­
tronics Solutions, 
consumption reduction, 
metering, distributed 
energy resources). 
ICT according to inter­
nationally agreed 
industry standards such 
as NIST-SGIP and ETSI- 
CEN-Cenelec. 
To enable network oper­
ators, transmission and 
distribution system oper­
ators, grid users, storage 
owners, metering oper­
ators, applications and 
service providers or 
power exchange platform 
operators to create econ­
omical, environmentally- 
friendly, balanced and 
sustainable power 
systems with reduced 
transmission losses and 
optimised levels of 
supply quality, safety, 
grid stability, reliability, 
renewable power 
collection and cost-effi­
ciency by supporting 
supply contracts 
involving predominantly 
export of state-of-the-art, 
innovative technologies 
and services. 
Standards 1, 2 (a or b) and 3 shall be met. 
1. 
The total cost of the project includes at least 20 % for eligible information 
and communication technology (ICT) upgrades. 
2a. An estimated minimum 10 % reduction in the amount of CO 2 emissions 
from fossil fuel will result from the project or application, or 
2b. Demonstrated significant CO 2 emission reductions will be enabled through 
either: 
— reductions in energy losses within the electricity grid served by the Smart 
Grid application or project by at least 5 %; or 
— reductions in aggregate electricity consumption by loads served by the 
Smart Grid application or project by at least 5 %; or 
— intermittent feed-in of renewable energies, including from subordinate 
voltage levels, representing at least an additional 10 % of the total energy 
fed into the grid where the smart grid technologies are applied. 
3. 
Prior to authorisation, an independent, qualified third party will review the 
project and prepare a report that describes the characteristics of the 
proposed Smart Grid application or project and verifies whether the project 
or application will meet standards 1 and 2 (a or b). For projects using the 2b 
standard, estimated CO 2 emissions reductions enabled by the project will be 
included in the report. Such report will be shared with Participants prior to 
any authorisation of financial support and authorisation will be conditional 
on the report positively verifying that standards 1 and 2 (a or b) will be met 
by the proposed Smart Grid project or application. 
Standards will be measured by comparing the estimated emissions or energy 
use from an Area Served by the Grid if the proposed Smart Grid tech­
nologies are applied to emissions or energy use of that same area if the 
proposed Smart Grid technologies were not applied. 
15 years

 
Appendix III 
Eligibility criteria for climate change adaptation projects 
A project is eligible for the financial terms and conditions set out in this Sector Understanding if: 
a) Climate change adaptation is the principal objective of the project, and it is explicitly indicated and explained as such 
in the project plan and supporting documents, as being fundamental to the design of the project. 
b) The project’s proposal shall include an analysis and identification of specific and relevant climate change-related risks 
and vulnerabilities, and how the proposed measures or technologies will directly address them. 
c) There is an independent third-party review conducted on the project, either separately or as an integral part of the 
project plan which is made publicly available, such as published on the website of the national authority. The review 
shall evaluate the specific and relevant climate change-related risks and vulnerabilities and how the proposed 
measures contained within the project will directly address them. 
d) The useful life of the project exceeds 15 years.
EN 
L 38/76 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
Appendix IV 
Methodology to be used when determining the eligibility of sectors relating to Article 2 of this sector 
understanding 
When proposing that Project Class or Type be added to Appendix II of this Sector Understanding, Participants shall 
provide a detailed description of the proposed Project Class or Type and information on how such projects fulfil the 
criteria set out in Article 2 b) of this Sector Understanding; such information shall include: 
a) An evaluation of the direct contribution of the Project Class or Type to climate change mitigation, including a 
comparison of the sector performance, based on measurable data regarding carbon emissions or CO 2 equivalent 
and/or in high energy efficiency, with conventional and in-use newer technological approaches; this comparison 
shall, in all cases, be based on quantitative measures, such as a decrease in emissions per unit produced. 
b) A description of the technical and performance standards of the Project Class or Type proposed sector, including 
information on any relevant, existing Best Available Techniques (BAT); if appropriate, this description shall explain 
how the technology is an improvement on the existing BAT. 
c) A description of the financial barriers in the proposed Project Class or Type, including any financial needs and 
market conditions, and identify the provisions under this Sector Understanding that are expected to enable such 
projects to proceed.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/77

 
Appendix V 
List of definitions 
Area Served by the Grid: A system of synchronised power providers and consumers connected by transmission and 
distribution lines and operated by one or more control centres. 
Best Available Techniques: as per the definition of EU Directive 96/61/EC (Article 2.11), “Best Available Techniques” 
shall mean the most effective and advanced stage in the development of activities and their methods of operation, which 
indicate the practical suitability of particular techniques for providing in principle the basis for emission limit values 
designed to prevent and, where that is not practicable, generally to reduce emissions and the impact on the environment 
as a whole: 
a) “techniques” shall include both the technology used and the way in which the installation is designed, built, 
maintained, operated and decommissioned; 
b) “available” techniques shall mean those developed on a scale which allows implementation in the relevant industrial 
sector, under economically and technically viable conditions, taking into consideration the costs and advantages, 
whether or not the techniques are used or produced inside the Member State in question, as long as they are 
reasonably accessible to the operator; 
c) “best” shall mean most effective in achieving a high general level of protection of the environment as a whole. 
Greenhouse 
Gases: greenhouse 
gases are defined to include carbon dioxide, methane, 
nitrous oxide, 
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride. 
Large Hydro Power Project: as per the definition of the International Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD). ICOLD 
defines a large dam as a dam with a height of 15 m or more from the foundation. Dams that are between 5 and 15 m 
high and have a reservoir volume of more than 3 million m 3 are also classified as large dams.
EN 
L 38/78 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX V 
SECTOR UNDERSTANDING ON EXPORT CREDITS FOR RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE 
The Participants to this Sector Understanding agree that the financial terms and conditions of the Sector Understanding, 
which complements the Arrangement, shall be implemented in a way that is consistent with the Purpose of the 
Arrangement. 
CHAPTER I 
Scope of the sector understanding 
1. SCOPE OF APPLICATION 
a) This Sector Understanding sets out the financial terms and conditions that apply to officially supported export 
credits relating to contracts for rail and other specified track-bound transportation infrastructure assets essential to 
operating trains, including control (e.g. signalling and other IT) systems, electrification, tracks, overhead wires and 
cables, pylons, rolling stock, cable cars, trolley buses, and related construction work. 
b) The specific types of track-bound transportation systems that are eligible for support according to the terms and 
conditions of this Annex are: 
1) Any type of rail transportation system. 
2) Trolleybus transportation systems. 
3) Cable car transportation systems ( 1 ). 
CHAPTER II 
Provisions for export credits 
2. MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS 
a) For officially supported export credits relating to contracts included within the scope of application of this Sector 
Understanding, the maximum repayment term is set out as follows: 
1) For contracts in Category I countries (as defined in Article 10 of the Arrangement): 12 years. 
2) For contacts in Category II countries (as defined in Article 10 of the Arrangement): 14 years. 
b) To qualify for the repayment terms set out in paragraph a) above, the following conditions shall apply: 
1) The transaction shall involve an overall contract value of more than SDR 10 million; and 
2) The repayment terms shall not exceed the useful life of the track-bound transportation infrastructure asset 
financed; and 
3) For transactions in Category I countries, the transaction involves/is characterised by: 
— Participation in a loan syndication with private financial institutions that do not benefit from Official 
Export Credit Support, whereby: 
i) The Participant is a minority partner with pari passu status throughout the life of the loan; and 
ii) Official export credit support provided by the Participants comprises less than 50 % of the syndication. 
— Premium rates for any official support that do not undercut available private market financing and that are 
commensurate with the corresponding rates being charged by other private financial institutions that are 
participating in the syndication.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/79 
( 1 ) Cable car transportation systems associated with recreational activities such as skiing are not eligible for support under this Annex.

 
c) A Participant may request a waiver of the condition set out in paragraph b) 3) above, through use of a Common 
Line, in accordance with Articles 56 to 61 of the Arrangement. In such cases, the Participant proposing the 
Common Line shall provide, either in the proposed Common Line or in each individual transaction thereafter 
notified, a comprehensive explanation for the support, including specific data on pricing, and a rationale for the 
need to waive the provisions of paragraph b) 3) above. 
3. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST 
The repayment of principal and interest shall be provided according to Article 15 of the Arrangement except that the 
maximum weighted average life of the repayment period under paragraph d) 4) of that Article shall be: 
a) For transaction in a Category I countries, six-and-a-quarter years; and 
b) For transaction in a Category II countries, seven-and-a-quarter years. 
CHAPTER III 
Procedures 
4. PRIOR NOTIFICATION 
a) A Participant shall give prior notification in accordance with Article 45 of the Arrangement at least ten calendar 
days before issuing any commitment if it intends to provide support for a transaction in a Category I country. 
Such notifications shall include a comprehensive explanation for the official support, including specific data on 
pricing. 
b) A Participant shall give prior notification in accordance with Article 46 of the Arrangement at least ten calendar 
days before issuing any commitment if it intends to provide support for: 
1) A transaction in a Category II country; or 
2) A transaction supported pursuant to a Common Line set out in accordance with Article 2 c) of this Sector 
Understanding. Such prior notification may be made concurrently with, and subject to the approval of, the 
Common Line proposal. 
5. VALIDITY OF COMMON LINES 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 61 a) of the Arrangement, all agreed Common Lines shall cease to be valid 
on 31 December 2023, unless the Participants agree to the extension of this Sector Understanding in accordance 
with Article 6 d) of this Sector Understanding. 
CHAPTER IV 
Monitoring and review 
6. MONITORING AND REVIEW 
a) The Secretariat shall report annually on the implementation of this Sector Understanding. 
b) After 31 December 2023, and subject to paragraph c) below, the less than 50 % syndication requirement set out 
in subparagraph ii) of the first tiret of Article 2 b) 3) of this Sector Understanding shall be replaced by a 
maximum 35 % syndication requirement unless the Participants agree otherwise. 
c) The Participants shall undertake a review of this Sector Understanding by the end of 2023 with a view to 
assessing the market conditions and other factors to determine whether the terms and conditions should be 
continued and or amended. 
d) After 31 December 2023, the terms and conditions of this Sector Understanding shall be discontinued unless the 
Participants agree otherwise.
EN 
L 38/80 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX VI 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO PROJECT FINANCE TRANSACTIONS 
CHAPTER I 
General provisions 
1. SCOPE OF APPLICATION 
a) This Annex sets out terms and conditions that Participants may support for project finance transactions that meet 
the eligibility criteria set out in Appendix 1. 
b) Where no corresponding provision exists in this Annex, the terms of the Arrangement shall apply. 
CHAPTER II 
Financial terms and conditions 
2. MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS 
The maximum repayment term is 14 years, except when official export credit support provided by the Participants 
comprises more than 35 % of the syndication for a project in a High Income OECD country, the maximum 
repayment term is 10 years. 
3. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST 
The principal sum of an export credit may be repaid in unequal instalments, and principal and interest may be paid 
in less frequent than semi-annual instalments, as long as the following conditions are met: 
a) No single repayment of principal or series of principal payments within a six-month period shall exceed 25 % of 
the principal sum of the credit. 
b) The first repayment of principal shall be made no later than 24 months after the starting point of credit and no 
less than 2 % of the principal sum of the credit shall have been repaid 24 months after the starting point of credit. 
c) Interest shall be paid no less frequently than every 12 months and the first interest payment shall be made no 
later than six months after the starting point of credit. 
d) The weighted average life of the repayment period shall not exceed seven-and-a-quarter years, except when official 
export credit support provided by the Participants comprises more than 35 % of the syndication for a project in a 
High Income OECD country, the weighted average life of the repayment period shall not exceed five-and-a-quarter 
years. 
e) The Participant shall give prior notification according to Article 4 of this Annex. 
CHAPTER III 
Procedures 
4. PRIOR NOTIFICATION FOR PROJECT FINANCE TRANSACTIONS 
A Participant shall notify all Participants of the intent to provide support according to the terms and conditions of 
this Annex at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment. The notification shall be provided in 
accordance with Annex VII of the Arrangement. If any Participant requests an explanation in respect of the terms 
and conditions being supported during this period, the notifying Participant shall wait an additional ten calendar days 
before issuing any commitment.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/81

 
Appendix 1 
Eligibility criteria for project finance transactions 
I. BASIC CRITERIA 
The transaction involves/is characterised by: 
a) The financing of a particular economic unit in which a lender is satisfied to consider the cash flows and earnings of 
that economic unit as the source of funds from which a loan will be repaid and to the assets of the economic unit as 
collateral for the loan. 
b) Financing of export transactions with an independent (legally and economically) project company, e.g. special 
purpose company, in respect of investment projects generating their own revenues. 
c) Appropriate risk-sharing among the partners of the project, e.g. private or creditworthy public shareholders, 
exporters, creditors, off-takers, including adequate equity. 
d) Project cash flow sufficient during the entire repayment period to cover operating costs and debt service for outside 
funds. 
e) Priority deduction from project revenues of operating costs and debt service. 
f) A non-sovereign buyer/borrower with no sovereign repayment guarantee (not including performance guarantees, 
e.g. off-take arrangements). 
g) Asset-based securities for proceeds/assets of the project, e.g. assignments, pledges, proceed accounts; 
h) Limited or no recourse to the sponsors of the private sector shareholders/sponsors of the project after completion. 
II. ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR PROJECT FINANCE TRANSACTIONS IN HIGH INCOME OECD COUNTRIES 
The transaction involves/is characterised by: 
a) Participation in a loan syndication with private financial institutions that do not benefit from Official Export Credit 
Support, whereby: 
— The Participant is a minority partner with pari passu status throughout the life of the loan, and 
— Official export credit support provided by the Participants comprises less than 50 % of the syndication. 
b) Premium rates for any official support that do not undercut available private market financing and that are 
commensurate with the corresponding rates being charged by other private financial institutions that are 
participating in the syndication.
EN 
L 38/82 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX VII 
INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED FOR NOTIFICATIONS 
The information listed in Section I below shall be provided for all notifications made under the Arrangement (including 
its Annexes). In addition, the information specified in Section II shall be provided, as appropriate, in relation to the 
specific type of notification being made. 
I. INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED FOR ALL NOTIFICATIONS 
a) Basic information 
1. 
Notifying country 
2. 
Date of notification 
3. 
Notifying institution/authority/agency 
4. 
ECA(s) extending official export credit support 
a. ECA providing insurance/guarantee support 
b. ECA providing finance support 
5. 
Notification number 
6. 
Identification codes (internal) 
7. 
Credit line reference number (if relevant) 
8. 
Status (e.g. original, revision, replacement) 
9. 
Revision number (if relevant) 
10. 
Arrangement Article(s) under which notification is being made 
11. 
Reference number of notification matched (if relevant) 
12. 
Description of support being matched (if relevant) 
13. 
Destination country 
b) Buyer/borrower/guarantor information 
14. 
Buyer name 
15. 
Buyer country 
16. 
Buyer location (if known) 
17. 
Buyer status 
18. 
Buyer type 
19. 
Borrower name (if the borrower is not the buyer) 
20. 
Borrower country (if the borrower is not the buyer) 
21. 
Borrower location (if the borrower is not the buyer) 
22. 
Borrower status (if the borrower is not the buyer) 
23. 
Borrower type (if the borrower is not the buyer) 
24. 
Guarantor name (if relevant) 
25. 
Guarantor country (if relevant) 
26. 
Guarantor location (if relevant) 
27. 
Guarantor status (if relevant) 
28. 
Guarantor type (if relevant)
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/83

 
c) Information on goods and/or services being exported and the project 
29. 
Detailed description of the products and/or services being exported 
30. 
Detailed description of the project (or sector) for which the exports are being provided 
31. 
Suggested purpose code 
32. 
Location of the project (if known) 
33. 
Tender closing date (if relevant) 
34. 
Expiry date of credit line (if relevant) 
35. 
Value of contract(s) supported, according to the following scale in millions of SDRs: 
Category 
From 
To 
I: 
0 
1 
II: 
1 
2 
III: 
2 
3 
IV: 
3 
5 
V: 
5 
7 
VI: 
7 
10 
VII: 
10 
20 
VIII: 
20 
40 
IX: 
40 
80 
X: 
80 
120 
XI: 
120 
160 
XII: 
160 
200 
XIII: 
200 
240 
XIV: 
240 
280 
XV: 
280 
(*) 
(*) Indicate the number of SDR 40 million multiples in excess of SDR 280 million, e.g. SDR 410 million would be notified as 
Category XV+3. 
36. 
Value of contract(s) supported, actual amount (in contract currency) 
37. 
Currency of contract(s) 
d) Financial terms and conditions of the official export credit support 
The following information should be provided in respect of each tranche supported for transactions comprising 
multiple tranches with different financial terms and conditions. 
38. 
Credit value, SDR scale 
39. 
Credit value, actual amount (optional in lieu of item 38) 
40. 
Credit currency 
41. 
Down payment (% export contract value) 
42. 
Local costs (% export contract value)
EN 
L 38/84 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
43. 
SPOC determined according to (with reference to Annex XIV definition q) 
44. 
Length of the repayment period 
45. 
Length of repayment period units 
46. 
Interest rate base 
47. 
Interest rate or margin above base 
48. 
Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section I 
II. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED, AS APPROPRIATE, FOR NOTIFICATIONS MADE IN 
RELATION TO SPECIFIC PROVISIONS 
a) Chapter II Article 12 d) 3) 
The following information should be provided in respect of each tranche supported for transactions comprising 
multiple tranches with different financial terms and conditions. 
49. 
Type of local costs supported 
50. 
Nature of local costs supported: Capital equipment? 
51. 
Nature of local costs supported: Deliveries from local subsidiaries and/or affiliates? 
52. 
Nature of local costs supported: Local construction or installation costs? 
53. 
Nature of local costs supported: VAT, import duties, other taxes? 
54. 
Nature of local costs supported: Other? 
55. 
Description of “other” local costs 
56. 
Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.a. 
b) Chapter II Article 15 c) 5), Annex I Article 5 e), Annex II Article 6 a), Annex II Article 6 b), Annex IV 
Article 8 d), Annex VI Article 4 
57. 
Repayment profile 
58. 
Repayment frequency (principal) 
59. 
Repayment frequency (interest) 
60. 
First principal repayment after SPOC 
61. 
First principal repayment after SPOC units 
62. 
Amount of interest capitalised before the SPOC 
63. 
Capitalised interest currency 
64. 
Weighted average life of the repayment period 
65. 
Percentage principal repaid by mid-point of credit 
66. 
Explanation of the reason for not providing support according to standard repayment structures 
67. 
Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.b. 
c) All notification obligations in Chapter II Articles 23, 26, 28, 29, Annex VI Article 4 (only for projects in high 
Income OECD countries) and Annex V Article 4a) 
68. 
Country risk classification of the obligor’s country 
69. 
Application of an offshore future flow structure combined with an offshore escrow account? (Categories 1–7 
only)
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/85

 
70. 
The applicable country and buyer risk categories are related to the (buyer, borrower, guarantor, project, 
transaction) 
71. 
Applicable country risk classification 
72. 
Applicable buyer risk category 
73. 
Does the entity indicated in #70 have a foreign currency rating from an accredited credit rating agency (CRA)? 
74. 
Most favourable accredited CRA foreign currency rating for the entity indicated in #70 
75. 
Accredited CRA providing the rating reported in #74 
76. 
Basis for applicable Minimum Premium Rate (MPR) 
77. 
Basis for actual premium rate charged 
78. 
Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the basis for the actual premium rate charged 
79. 
Length of the drawdown period 
80. 
Length of drawdown period units 
81. 
Percentage of cover for political (country) risk 
82. 
Percentage of cover for commercial (buyer) risk 
83. 
Official export credit product 
84. 
Interest covered during claims waiting period? 
85. 
MPR (based on item 76) country risk mitigation or buyer risk credit enhancements 
86. 
Local currency financing? (Cat 1–7 MPRs only) 
87. 
Local currency factor (LCF) applied 
88. 
Buyer risk credit enhancements? 
89. 
Total credit enhancement factor (CEF) applied 
90. 
Applicable MPR (based on item 76) after any country risk mitigation or buyer risk credit enhancements 
91. 
Actual premium rate charged 
92. 
Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.c. 
d) Arrangement, Article 26 e) first tiret 
93. 
Explanation of the characteristics of the obligor against the criteria for Buyer Risk Category CC0 in 
Annex XII of the Arrangement 
e) Arrangement, Article 26 e) second tiret 
94. 
Rationale for buyer risk category better than accredited CRA rating 
f) 
Arrangement, Article 23 c) 2) 
95. 
Type of name-specific or related entity debt instrument used to set premium 
96. 
Name of the debt instrument entity 
97. 
Detailed description and key characteristics of the debt instrument and the methodology used to derive the 
pricing, including (but not limited to) information about the tenor, credit profile, liquidity and currency of the 
instrument
EN 
L 38/86 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
98. 
Relationship between the transaction obligor/guarantor and the related entity 
99. 
Does the transaction obligor/guarantor have the same issuer CRA rating as the related entity? 
100. Does the related entity meet all of the criteria listed in Annex XIV (definition “o”) of the Arrangement? 
101. Detailed explanation of how the criteria that define a related entity have been met 
g) Arrangement, Article 46 a) 7) 
102. Justification for the buyer risk classification 
103. Best accredited CRA foreign currency rating for the sovereign in the obligor’s/guarantor’s domicile (If the 
applicable buyer risk category is more favourable than the best accredited CRA rating of the sovereign in the 
obligor’s/guarantor’s domicile for an unrated obligor) 
104. Accredited CRA providing the rating reported in #103 
h) Arrangement, Article 23 c) 1) 
105. Is syndicated loan package structured as either an asset-backed or project finance transaction? 
106. Do commercial market loans/guarantees without any bilateral or multilateral support comprise at least 25 % of 
the syndicate? 
107. Are all parties to the financing on pari passu terms on all financial terms and conditions, including the security 
package? 
108. Are the financial terms and conditions of the transaction fully compliant with the Arrangement, as modified 
by the provisions for Market Benchmark pricing in syndicated loans/guarantees transactions? 
109. Detailed description of the methodology used to derive the premium (or all-in cost for direct lending) reported 
in item 91 
110. Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.d. 
i) 
Arrangement, Article 23 h) 
111. Does the guarantee cover the entire duration of the debt? 
112. Is the guarantee irrevocable, unconditional and available on demand? 
113. Is the guarantee legally valid and capable of being enforced in the guarantor country’s jurisdiction? 
114. Is the guarantor creditworthy in relation to the size of the guaranteed debt? 
115. Is the guarantor subject to the monetary control and transfer regulations of the country in which it is located? 
116. Percentage of the total amount at risk (i.e. principal and interest) that is covered by the guarantee 
117. Does any financial relationship exist between the guarantor and the obligor? 
118. Type of relationship 
119. Is the guarantor legally and financially independent and can it fulfil the obligor’s payment obligation? 
120. Would the guarantor be affected by events, regulations or sovereign intervention in the obligor’s country? 
121. Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.e. 
j) 
Arrangement, Article 28 b) 
For the application of an offshore future flow structure combined with an offshore escrow account: 
122. – 132. Confirmation that the criteria listed in Annex XIII have been met
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/87

 
133. Information on additional factors taken into consideration and/or any other comments regarding the appli­
cation of an offshore future flow structure combined with an offshore escrow account 
For local currency financing: 
134. – 139. Confirmation that the criteria listed in Annex XIII have been met 
140. Local currency used 
141. Information on additional factors taken into consideration and/or any other comments regarding the appli­
cation of local currency financing 
142. Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.f. 
k) Arrangement, Article 29 d) 
143. – 150. The specific buyer risk credit enhancements and corresponding credit enhancement factors applied 
151. Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.g. 
l) 
Annex V, Article 4 
152. Does the repayment term supported exceed the useful life of the track-bound transportation infrastructure 
asset financed? 
153. Comments (regarding item 152) 
For all transactions involving Category I countries: 
154. Comprehensive explanation for provision of official support 
155. Has a waiver of the conditions set out in Article 2, Paragraph b) 3) of Annex V been requested via a common 
line? 
156. Common line status 
157. Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding any common line 
m) Annex VI, Article 4 
158. Explanation of why project finance terms are being provided 
159. Contract value in relation to turnkey contract, portion of sub-contracts, etc. 
160. Type of cover provided prior to SPOC 
161. Percentage of cover for political risk prior to SPOC 
162. Percentage of cover for commercial risk prior to SPOC 
163. Type of cover provided after SPOC 
164. Percentage of cover for political risk after SPOC 
165. Percentage of cover for commercial risk after SPOC 
166. Length of the construction period 
167. Length of construction period units 
168. – 183. Confirmation (and explanation as necessary) that the transaction meets the criteria listed in Appendix I 
of Annex VI 
n) Annex VI, Article 4 and Annex V Article 4 a) for projects in High Income OECD Countries 
184. Total debt syndication amount for the project, including official and private lenders 
185. Total debt syndication currency
EN 
L 38/88 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
186. Percentage of debt syndication from Participants to the Arrangement 
187. Percentage of the debt syndication from private lenders 
188. Minority partner in loan syndication? 
189. Comments (regarding item 195) 
190. Premium rate meets market criteria? 
191. Comments (regarding item 197) 
192. Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II.h. 
o) Arrangement, Articles 47 and 48 
193. Total amount of trade-related aid, SDR scale 
194. Composition of trade-related aid package: share of non-concessional export credits in conformity with the 
Arrangement 
195. Composition of trade-related aid package: share of other funds at or near market rates 
196. Composition of trade-related aid package: share of other official funds with a concessionality level of less than 
the minimum permitted under Article 35 except in cases of matching 
197. Composition of trade-related aid package: share of down payment from the purchaser 
198. Composition of trade-related aid package: share of payments on or before the starting point of credit that are 
not considered 
199. Composition of trade-related aid package: share of grants 
200. Composition of trade-related aid package: share of concessional credits 
201. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: grace period 
202. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: length of repayment period 
203. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: repayment frequency 
204. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: repayment profile 
205. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: currency 
206. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: interest rate 
207. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: applicable DDR 
208. Terms and conditions of concessional credits: concessionality level 
209. Overall concessionality level of the trade-related aid package 
210. Comments, notes and/or explanations regarding the information provided in Section II. k)
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/89

 
ANNEX VIII 
CALCULATION OF THE MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES FOR COUNTRY RISK CATEGORY 1–7 TRANSACTIONS 
MPR Formula 
The formula for calculating the applicable MPR for an export credit involving an obligor/guarantor in a country 
classified in Country Risk Categories 1–7 is: 
MPR = {[(ai * HOR + bi) * max (PCC, PCP)/0,95] * (1-LCF) + [cin * PCC/0,95 * HOR * (1-CEF)]} * QPFi * PCFi * BTSF 
where: 
— ai 
= country risk coefficient in country risk category i (i = 1–7) 
— cin 
= buyer risk coefficient for buyer category n (n = SOV+, SOV/CCO, CC1-CC5) in country risk category i 
(i = 1–7) 
— bi 
= constant for country category risk category i (i = 1–7) 
— HOR = horizon of risk 
— PCC = commercial (buyer) risk percentage of cover 
— PCP = political (country) risk percentage of cover 
— CEF = credit enhancements factor 
— QPFi = quality of product factor in country risk category i (i = 1–7) 
— PCFi = percentage of cover factor in country risk category i (i = 1–7) 
— BTSF = better than sovereign factor 
— LCF = local currency factor 
Applicable Country Risk Classification 
The applicable country risk classification is determined according to Article 23 e) of the Arrangement, which in turn 
determines the country risk coefficient (ai) and constant (bi) that are obtained from the following table: 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
a 
0,090 
0,200 
0,350 
0,550 
0,740 
0,900 
1,100 
b 
0,350 
0,350 
0,350 
0,350 
0,750 
1,200 
1,800 
Selection of the Appropriate Buyer Risk Category 
The appropriate buyer risk category is selected from the following table, which provides the combinations of country 
and buyer risk categories that have been established and the agreed concordance between buyer risk categories 
CC1–CC5 and the classifications of accredited CRAs. Qualitative descriptions of each buyer risk category (SOV+ to 
CC5) have been established to facilitate the classification of obligors (and guarantors) and are provided in Annex XII.
EN 
L 38/90 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
Country Risk Category 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
SOV+ 
SOV+ 
SOV+ 
SOV+ 
SOV+ 
SOV+ 
SOV+ 
SOV/CC0 
SOV/CC0 
SOV/CC0 
SOV/CC0 
SOV/CC0 
SOV/CC0 
SOV/CC0 
CC1 
AAA to AA- 
CC1 
A+ to A- 
CC1 
BBB+ to BBB- 
CC1 
BB+ to BB 
CC1 
BB- 
CC1 
B+ 
CC1 
B 
CC2 
A+ to A- 
CC2 
BBB+ to BBB- 
CC2 
BB+ to BB 
CC2 
BB- 
CC2 
B+ 
CC2 
B 
CC2 
B- or worse 
CC3 
BBB+ to BBB- 
CC3 
BB+ to BB 
CC3 
BB- 
CC3 
B+ 
CC3 
B 
CC3 
B- or worse 
CC4 
BB+ to BB 
CC4 
BB- 
CC4 
B+ 
CC4 
B 
CC4 
B- or worse 
CC5 
BB- or worse 
CC5 
B+ or worse 
CC5 
B or worse 
CC5 
B- or worse 
The selected buyer risk category, in combination with the applicable country risk category determines the buyer risk 
coefficient (c in ) that is obtained from the following table: 
Buyer Risk 
Category 
Country Risk Category 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
SOV+ 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
SOV/CC0 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
0,000 
CC1 
0,110 
0,120 
0,110 
0,100 
0,100 
0,100 
0,125 
CC2 
0,200 
0,212 
0,223 
0,234 
0,246 
0,258 
0,271 
CC3 
0,270 
0,320 
0,320 
0,350 
0,380 
0,480 
n/a 
CC4 
0,405 
0,459 
0,495 
0,540 
0,621 
n/a 
n/a 
CC5 
0,630 
0,675 
0,720 
0,810 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
Horizon of Risk (HOR) 
The Horizon of Risk (HOR) is calculated as follows: 
For standard repayment profiles (i.e. equal semi-annual repayments of principal): 
HOR = (length of the disbursement period * 0,5) + the length of the repayment period
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/91

 
For non-standard repayment profiles: 
HOR = (length of the disbursement period * 0,5) + (weighted average life of the repayment period – 0,25)/0,5 
In the above formulas, the unit of measurement for time is years. 
Percentage of Cover for Commercial (Buyer) Risk (PCC) and Political (Country) Risk (PCP) 
The Percentages of Cover (PCC and PCP) expressed as a decimal value (i.e. 95 % is expressed as 0,95) in the MPR 
formula. 
Buyer Risk Credit Enhancements 
The value of the credit enhancement factor (CEF) is 0 for any transaction that is not subject to any buyer risk credit 
enhancements. The value of the CEF for transactions that are subject to buyer risk credit enhancements is determined 
according to Annex XII, subject to the restrictions set out in Article 29 c) of the Arrangement and may not exceed 0,35. 
Quality of Product Factor (QPF) 
The QPF is obtained from the following table: 
Product Quality 
Country Risk Category 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
Below 
Standard 
0,9965 
0,9935 
0,9850 
0,9825 
0,9825 
0,9800 
0,9800 
Standard 
1,0000 
1,0000 
1,0000 
1,0000 
1,0000 
1,0000 
1,0000 
Above 
Standard 
1,0035 
1,0065 
1,0150 
1,0175 
1,0175 
1,0200 
1,0200 
Percentage of Cover Factor (PCF) 
The PCF is determined as follows: 
For (max(PCC, PCP) ≤ 0,95, PCF = 1) 
For (max(PCC, PCP) > 0,95, PCF = 1 + ((max(PCC, PCP) – 0,95)/0,05) * (percentage of cover coefficient) 
The percentage of cover coefficient is obtained from the following table: 
Country Risk Category 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
Percentage of 
cover coef­
ficient 
0,00000 
0,00337 
0,00489 
0,01639 
0,03657 
0,05878 
0,08598 
Better than Sovereign Factor (BTSF) 
When an obligor is classified in the “better than sovereign” (SOV+) buyer risk category, BTSF = 0,9, otherwise BTSF = 1. 
Local Currency Factor (LCF) 
For transaction making use of local currency country risk mitigation, the value of the LCF may not exceed 0,2. The 
value of the LCF for all other transactions is 0.
EN 
L 38/92 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX IX 
PREMIUM BENCHMARKS FOR MARKET BENCHMARK TRANSACTIONS 
Un-covered Tranche of Export Credits or the non-ECA Covered Part of a Syndicated Loan 
The price indicated by private banks/institutions with respect to the uncovered tranche of the export credit in question 
(or sometimes as the non-ECA covered part of a syndicated loan) may represent the best match to ECA cover. Pricing 
on such un-covered portions or non-covered parts should only be used if provided on commercial terms (e.g. this would 
exclude IFI funded portions). 
Name-Specific Corporate Bonds 
Corporate bonds reflect name specific credit risk. Care should be used in matching in terms of the ECA contract 
characteristics, such as term of maturity, and currency denomination, and any credit enhancements. If primary corporate 
bonds (i.e. all-in yield upon issuance) or secondary corporate bonds (i.e. the option adjusted spread over the appropriate 
curve, which is usually the relevant currency swap curve) are used, those for the obligor should be used in the first 
instance; if not available, primary or secondary corporate bonds from Related Entities may be used. 
Name-Specific Credit Default Swaps 
Credit Default Swaps (CDS) are a form of protection against default. The CDS spread is the amount paid per period by 
the buyer of the CDS as a percentage of notional principal, and is usually expressed in basis points. The CDS buyer 
effectively buys insurance against default by making payments to the seller of the CDS for the life of the swap, or until 
the credit event occurs. A CDS curve for the obligor should be used in the first instance; if not available, CDs curves 
from Related Entities may be used. 
Loan Benchmarks 
Primary loan benchmarks (i.e. pricing upon issuance) or secondary loan benchmarks (i.e. the current yield on the loan 
expected by the financial institution purchasing the loan from another financial institution). All fees must be known for 
primary loan benchmarks so that the all-in yield can be calculated. If loan benchmarks are used, those for the obligor 
should be used in the first instance; if not available, those from similar entities may be used. 
Benchmark Market Curves 
Benchmark market curves reflect the credit risk of a whole sector or class of buyers. This market information may be 
relevant when name specific information is not available. In general, the quality of the information inherent to these 
markets depends upon their liquidity. In any case, one should look for market instruments that provide the closest 
match in terms of the ECA contract characteristics, such as date, credit rating, term of maturity, and currency 
denomination.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/93

 
ANNEX X 
CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE APPLICATION OF A THIRD PARTY REPAYMENT GUARANTEE AND 
THE CRITERIA FOR ASSESSING MULTILATERAL OR REGIONAL INSTITUTIONS 
PURPOSE 
This Annex provides the criteria and conditions that govern the application of third party repayment guarantees 
according to Article 23 e) of the Arrangement. It also provides the criteria by which multilateral or regional institutions 
should be assessed when determining if an institution should be subject to the premium rules for Market Benchmark 
Transactions in Article 23 c) of the Arrangement. 
APPLICATION 
Case 1: Guarantee for the Total Amount at Risk 
When security in the form of a repayment guarantee from an entity is provided for the total amount at risk 
(i.e. principal and interest), the applicable Country Risk Classification and Buyer Risk Category may be that of the 
guarantor when the following criteria are met: 
— The guarantee covers the entire duration of the credit. 
— The guarantee is irrevocable, unconditional and available on-demand. 
— The guarantee is legally valid and capable of being enforced in the guarantor country’s jurisdiction. 
— The guarantor is creditworthy in relation to the size of the guaranteed debt. 
— The guarantor is subject to the monetary control and transfer regulations of the country in which it is located, 
except when the guarantor is a multilateral institution that the Participants have agreed is generally exempt from 
such controls and limitations. 
If the guarantor is a subsidiary/parent of the guaranteed entity, Participants shall, on a case-by-case basis, determine 
whether: (1) in consideration of the relationship between the subsidiary/parent and the degree of legal commitment of 
the parent, the subsidiary/parent is legally and financially independent and could fulfil its payment obligations; (2) the 
subsidiary/parent could be affected by local events/regulations or sovereign intervention; and (3) the Head Office would 
in the event of a default regard itself as being liable. 
Case 2: Guarantee Limited in Amount 
When security in the form of a repayment guarantee from an entity is provided for a limited amount at risk 
(i.e. principal and interest), the applicable Country Risk Classification and Buyer Risk Category may be that of the 
guarantor for the portion of the credit subject to the guarantee, providing that all other relevant criteria listed under 
Case 1 are met. 
For the unguaranteed portion, the applicable Country Risk Classification and Buyer Risk Category is that of the obligor. 
Criteria for the Assessment of Multilateral or Regional Institutions 
The Participants may agree that a multilateral or regional institution is subject to the premium rules for Market 
Benchmark Transaction in Article 23 c) if the institution is generally exempt from the monetary control and transfer 
regulations of the country in which it is located. Such institutions shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis on their own 
merits and in consideration of whether: 
— the institution has statutory and financial independence; 
— all of the institution’s assets are immune from nationalisation or confiscation;
EN 
L 38/94 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
— the institution has full freedom of transfer and conversion of funds; 
— the institution is not subject to government intervention in the country where it is located; 
— the institution has tax immunity; and 
— there is an obligation of all its Member countries to supply additional capital to meet the institution’s obligations. 
The assessment should also take into consideration the historical payment record in situations of country credit risks 
default either in the country where it is located or in an obligor’s country, and any other factors that may be deemed 
appropriate in the assessment process. 
The list of such multilateral and regional institutions is not closed and a Participant may nominate an institution for 
review according to the above-listed considerations. The list of multilateral and regional institutions that are subject to 
the premium rules for Market Benchmark Transaction in Article 23 c) shall be made public by the Participants.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/95

 
ANNEX XI 
BUYER RISK CATEGORIES QUALITATIVE DESCRIPTIONS 
Better than Sovereign (SOV+) 
This is an exceptional classification. The entity achieving such a classification is one with an exceptionally strong credit 
profile that could be expected to fulfil its payment obligations during a period of sovereign debt distress or even default. 
International Credit Rating Agencies issue regular reports listing Corporate and Counterparty Ratings that exceed the 
Sovereign’s Foreign Currency Rating. Except when the risk sovereign has been identified through the Sovereign Risk 
Assessment Methodology as being significantly higher than country risk, Participants proposing that an entity be 
classified as better than sovereign shall reference such better than sovereign ratings in support of their recommendation. 
In order to be classified as better than its host sovereign, an entity would be expected to display several or normally a 
majority of the following characteristics or equivalents: 
— a strong credit profile; 
— substantial foreign exchange earnings relative to its currency debt burden; 
— production facilities and cash generation ability from subsidiaries or operations offshore, especially those domiciled 
in highly rated sovereigns, i.e. multinational enterprises; 
— a foreign owner or a strategic partner which could be relied on as a source of financial support in the absence of a 
formal guarantee; 
— a history of preferential treatment of the entity by the sovereign, including exemption from transfer and converti­
bility constraints and surrender requirements for export proceeds, and favourable tax treatment; 
— committed credit lines from highly rated international banks, especially credit lines without a material adverse 
change (MAC) clause which enable banks to withdraw committed facilities in the event of a sovereign crisis or 
other risk events; and 
— assets held offshore, especially liquid assets, often as a result of rules allowing exporters to trap and maintain cash 
balances offshore that are available for debt service. 
Normally the SOV+ buyer risk category is not applicable to: 
— publicly-owned entities and utilities, sub-sovereigns as line ministries, regional governments, etc.; 
— financial institutions domiciled in the sovereign’s jurisdiction; and 
— entities primarily selling to the domestic market in local currency. 
Sovereign (SOV) 
Sovereign obligors/guarantors are entities that are explicitly legally mandated to enter into a debt payment obligation on 
the behalf of the Sovereign State, typically Ministry of Finance or central bank ( 1 ). A risk designated as sovereign is one 
where: 
— the obligor/guarantor is legally mandated to enter into a debt payment obligation on behalf of the Sovereign and 
thereby commits the full faith and credit of the sovereign; and 
— in the event of rescheduling of sovereign risk, the debt in question would be included in the rescheduling and 
payment obligations acquired by the sovereign by virtue of the rescheduling.
EN 
L 38/96 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 1 ) Most typically this would be a risk on the central bank or Ministry of Finance. For central government entities other than the 
finance ministry, due diligence shall be undertaken to affirm that the entity commits the full faith and credit of the sovereign.

 
Equivalent to the Sovereign (CC0): Exceptionally Good Credit Quality 
The “equivalent to sovereign” category embraces two basic types of obligors/guarantors: 
— Public entities where due diligence reveals that either the buyer has the implicit full faith and credit/support of the 
sovereign or that the likelihood of sovereign liquidity and solvency support is very high, both in relation to recovery 
prospects as well as default risk. Non-sovereign public entities equivalent to the sovereign would also include 
companies owned by the government with a monopoly or near monopoly on operations in a sector (e.g. power, 
oil, gas). 
— Corporate entities with an exceptionally strong credit profile, displaying features in terms of both default and 
recovery prospects, which indicate that the risk could be seen as being equivalent to sovereign. Candidates could 
include strong blue chip corporates or very important banks for which the likelihood of sovereign liquidity and 
solvency support is high. 
Exceptionally good credit quality implies that the risk of payment interruption is expected to be negligible and that the 
entity has an exceptionally strong capacity for repayment and this capacity is not likely to be affected by foreseeable 
events. The credit quality is typically manifested in a combination of some, if not all, of the following characteristics of 
the entity’s business and financial profile: 
— exceptionally good to very good cash and income generation 
— exceptionally good to very good liquidity levels 
— exceptionally low to very low leverage 
— excellent to very strong business profile with proven and very strong management abilities 
The entity is also characterised by a high quality of financial and ownership disclosure, unless there is a very high 
likelihood of support from a parent (or sovereign) with a buyer risk classification that is equal to or better than what 
corresponds to this buyer risk category. 
Depending on the classification of the country in which the obligor/guarantor is domiciled, it is likely that an obligor/ 
guarantor classified in buyer risk category CC0 would be rated between AAA (Country Category 1) and B (Country 
Category 7) by accredited CRAs. 
Very Good Credit Quality (CC1) 
The risk of payment interruption is expected to be low or very low. The obligor/guarantor has a very strong capacity for 
repayment and this capacity is not likely to be affected by foreseeable events. The obligor/guarantor has a limited or 
very limited susceptibility to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. The credit quality is 
typically manifested in a combination of some, if not all, of the following characteristics of the business and financial 
profile: 
— very good to good cash and income generation 
— very good to good liquidity levels 
— very low to low leverage 
— very strong business profile with proven management abilities 
The entity is also characterised by a high quality of financial and ownership disclosure, unless there is a very high 
likelihood of support from a parent (or sovereign) with a buyer risk classification that is equal to or better than what 
corresponds to this buyer risk category. 
Depending on the classification of the country in which the obligor/guarantor is domiciled, it is likely that an obligor/ 
guarantor classified in buyer risk category CC1 would be rated between AAA (Country Category 1) and B (Country 
Category 7) by accredited CRAs.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/97

 
Good to Moderately Good Credit Quality, Above Average (CC2) 
The risk of payment interruption is expected to be low. The obligor/guarantor has a good to moderately good capacity 
for repayment and this capacity is not likely to be affected by foreseeable events. The obligor/guarantor has a limited 
susceptibility to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. The credit quality is typically 
manifested in a combination of some, if not all, of the following characteristics of the business and financial profile: 
— good to moderately good cash and income generation 
— good to moderately good liquidity levels 
— low to moderately low leverage 
— moderately strong business profile with proven management abilities 
The entity is also characterised by a high quality of financial and ownership disclosure, unless there is a very high 
likelihood of support from a parent (or sovereign) with a buyer risk classification that is equal to or better than what 
corresponds to this buyer risk category. 
Depending on the classification of the country in which the obligor/guarantor is domiciled, it is likely that an obligor/ 
guarantor classified in buyer risk category CC2 would be rated between A+ (Country Category 1) and B- or worse 
(Country Category 7) by accredited CRAs. 
Moderate Credit Quality, Average (CC3) 
The risk of payment interruption is expected to be moderate or moderately low. The obligor/guarantor has a moderate 
or moderately good capacity for repayment. There is a possibility of credit risk developing as the obligor/guarantor faces 
major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions which could lead to 
inadequate capacity to meet timely payments. However, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow 
financial commitments to be met. The credit quality is typically manifested in a combination of some, if not all, of the 
following characteristics of the business and financial profile. 
— moderately good to moderate cash and income generation 
— moderately good to moderate liquidity levels 
— moderately low to moderate leverage 
— moderate business profile with proven management abilities 
The entity is also characterised by an adequate quality of financial and ownership disclosure, unless there is a very high 
likelihood of support from a parent (or sovereign) with a buyer risk classification that is equal to or better than what 
corresponds to this buyer risk category. 
Depending on the classification of the country in which the obligor/guarantor is domiciled, it is likely that an obligor/ 
guarantor classified in buyer risk category CC3 would be rated between BBB+ (Country Category 1) and B- or worse 
(Country Category 6) by accredited CRAs. 
Moderately Weak Credit Quality, Below Average (CC4) 
The risk of payment interruption is expected to be moderately weak. The obligor/guarantor has a moderate to 
moderately weak capacity for repayment. There is a possibility of credit risk developing as the obligor/guarantor 
faces major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions which could 
lead to inadequate capacity to meet timely payments. However, business or financial alternatives may be available to 
allow financial commitments to be met. The credit quality is typically manifested in a combination of some, if not all, of 
the following characteristics of the business and financial profile: 
— moderate to moderately weak cash and income generation
EN 
L 38/98 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
— moderate to moderately weak liquidity levels 
— moderate to moderately high leverage 
— moderately weak business profile with limited track record of management abilities 
The entity is also characterised by an adequate quality of financial and ownership disclosure, unless there is a very high 
likelihood of support from a parent (or sovereign) with a buyer risk classification that is equal to or better than what 
corresponds to this buyer risk category. 
Depending on the classification of the country in which the obligor/guarantor is domiciled, it is likely that an obligor/ 
guarantor classified in buyer risk category CC4 would be rated between BB+ (Country Category 1) and B- or worse 
(Country Category 5) by accredited CRAs. 
Weak Credit Quality (CC5) 
The risk of payment interruption is expected to be high to very high. The obligor/guarantor has a moderately weak to 
weak capacity for repayment. The obligor/guarantor currently has the capacity to meet repayments but a limited margin 
of safety remains. However, there is a likelihood of developing payment problems as the capacity for continued payment 
is contingent upon a sustained, favourable business and economic environment. Adverse business, financial, or 
economic conditions will likely impair capacity or willingness to repay. The credit quality is typically manifested in 
a combination of some, if not all, of the following characteristics of the business and financial profile: 
— moderately weak to weak to very weak cash and income generation 
— moderately weak to weak liquidity levels 
— moderately high to high leverage 
— weak business profile with limited or no track record of management abilities 
The entity is also characterised by a poor quality of financial and ownership disclosure, unless there is a very high 
likelihood of support from a parent (or sovereign) with a buyer risk classification that is equal to or better than what 
corresponds to this buyer risk category. 
Depending on the classification of the country in which the obligor/guarantor is domiciled, it is likely that an obligor/ 
guarantor classified in buyer risk category CC5 would be rated between BB- (Country Category 1) and B- or worse 
(Country Category 4) by accredited CRAs.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/99

 
ANNEX XII 
CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE APPLICATION OF COUNTRY RISK MITIGATION TECHNIQUES AND 
BUYER RISK CREDIT ENHANCEMENTS 
PURPOSE 
This Annex provides detail on the use of country risk mitigation techniques listed in Article 28 a) of the Arrangement 
and the buyer risk credit enhancements listed in Article 29 a) of the Arrangement; this includes the criteria, conditions 
and specific circumstances which apply to their use as well as the impact on the MPRs. 
COUNTRY RISK MITIGATION TECHNIQUES 
1. Offshore Future Flow Structure Combined with Offshore Escrow Account 
Definition: 
A written document, such as a deed or a release or trustee arrangement, sealed and delivered to a third party, i.e. a 
person not party to the instrument, to be held by such third party until the fulfilment of certain conditions and then to 
be delivered by him to the other party to take effect. If the following criteria are satisfied subject to consideration of the 
additional factors listed, this technique can reduce or eliminate the transfer risks, mainly in the higher risk country 
categories. 
Criteria: 
— The escrow account is related to a foreign exchange-earning project and the flows into the escrow account are 
generated by the project itself and/or by other offshore export receivables. 
— The escrow account is held offshore, i.e. located outside of the country of the project where there are very limited, 
transfer or other country risks (i.e. in a High Income OECD country or High Income Euro Area country). 
— The escrow account is located in a first class bank, which is not directly or indirectly controlled by interests of the 
obligor or by the country of the obligor. 
— The funding of the account is secured through long-term or other appropriate contracts. 
— The combination of the sources of revenues (i.e. generated by the project itself and/or the other sources) of the 
obligor flowing through the account are in hard currency and can reasonably be expected to be collectively sufficient 
for the service of the debt for the entire duration of the credit, and come from one or more creditworthy foreign 
customers located in better risk countries than the country in which the project is located (i.e. normally High Income 
OECD countries or High Income Euro Area countries). 
— The obligor irrevocably instructs the foreign customers to pay directly into the account (i.e. the payments are not 
forwarded through an account controlled by the obligor or through its country). 
— The funds which have to be kept within the account are equal to at least six months of debt service. Where flexible 
repayment terms are being applied under a project finance structure, an amount equivalent to the actual six months 
debt service under such flexible terms are to be kept within the account; this amount may vary over time depending 
on the debt service profile. 
— The obligor has restricted access to the account (i.e. only after payment of the debt service under the credit). 
— The revenues deposited in the account are assigned to the lender as direct beneficiary, for the entire life of the credit.
EN 
L 38/100 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
— The opening of the account has received all the necessary legal authorisations from the local and any other 
appropriate authorities. 
— The escrow account and contractual arrangements may not be conditional and/or revocable and/or limited in 
duration. 
Additional factors to be taken into consideration: 
The technique applies subject to a case-by-case consideration of the above characteristics and, inter alia, with regard to: 
— the country, the obligor (i.e. either public or private), the sector, the vulnerability in relation to the commodities or 
services involved, including their availability for the entire duration of the credit, the customers; 
— the legal structures, e.g. whether the mechanism is sufficiently immune against the influence of the obligor or its 
country; 
— the degree to which the technique remains subject to government interference, renewal or withdrawal; 
— whether the account would be sufficiently protected against project related risks; 
— the amount which will flow into the account and the mechanism for the continuation of appropriate provision; 
— the situation with regard to the Paris Club (e.g. possible exemption); 
— the possible impact of country risks other than the transfer risk; 
— the protection against the risks of the country where the account is located; 
— the contracts with the customers, including their nature and duration; and 
— the global amount of the expected foreign earnings in relation to the total amount of the credit. 
Impact on the MPR 
The application of this country risk mitigation technique may result in a one category improvement in the applicable 
country risk classification for the transaction, except for transactions in Country Risk Category 1. 
2. Local Currency Financing 
Definition: 
Contract and financing negotiated in convertible and available local, other than hard, currencies and financed locally that 
eliminates or mitigates the transfer risk. The primary debt obligation in local currency would, in principle, not be 
affected by the occurrence of the first two country credit risks. 
Criteria: 
— The ECA liability and claims payment or the payment to the Direct Lender are expressed/made throughout in local 
currency. 
— The ECA is normally not exposed to the transfer risk. 
— In the normal course of events, there will be no requirement for local currency deposits to be converted into hard 
currency.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/101

 
— The borrower’s repayment in his own currency and in his own country is a valid discharge of the loan obligation. 
— If a borrower’s income is in local currency the borrower is protected against adverse exchange rate movements. 
— Transfer regulations in the borrower’s country should not affect the borrower’s repayment obligations, which would 
remain in local currency. 
Additional factors to be taken into consideration: 
The technique applies on a selective basis in respect of convertible and transferable currencies, where the underlying 
economy is sound. The Participant ECA should be in a position to meet its obligations to pay claims expressed in its 
own currency in the event that the local currency becomes either “non-transferable ” or “non-convertible” after the ECA 
takes on liability. (A Direct Lender would however carry this exposure.) 
Impact on the MPR 
The application of this risk mitigation technique may result in a discount of no more than 20 % to the country credit 
risk portion of the MPR (i.e. a local currency factor [LCF] with a value of no more than 0,2). 
BUYER RISK CREDIT ENHANCEMENTS 
The following table provides definitions of the buyer risk credit enhancements that may be applied, along with their 
maximum impact on the applicable MPRs. For transactions subject to country risk category 1–7 MPRs, the maximum 
CEF used in the MPR formula is stipulated; for market benchmark transactions, the maximum discount to the applicable 
Market Benchmark MPR is stipulated ( 1 ). 
Credit 
Enhancement 
Definition 
Maximum CEF 
(Country Risk 
Category 1–7) 
Maximum 
Discount (Market 
Benchmark) 
Assignment of 
Contract 
Proceeds 
or 
Receivables 
In the event a borrower has contracts with strong off-takers, 
whether offshore or local, a legally enforceable assignment of 
the contract provides rights to enforce the borrower’s contracts 
and/or make decisions under major contracts in the place of the 
borrower after a default under the loan. A direct agreement with 
a third party in a transaction (a local government agency in a 
mining or energy transaction) allows Lenders to approach a 
government to seek remedies for expropriation or other 
violation of contractual obligations related to the transaction. 
An existing company operating in a difficult market or sector 
may have receivables related to the sale of production with a 
company or companies located in a more stable environment. 
Receivables would generally be in a hard currency but may not 
be the subject of a specific contractual relationship. Assignment 
of these receivables could provide asset security in the accounts 
of the Borrower, giving the Lender a preferential treatment in the 
cash flow generated by the Borrower. 
0,10 
N/A
EN 
L 38/102 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023 
( 1 ) For a Market Benchmark Transaction, the premium rate resulting from the application of buyer risk credit enhancements may not 
be lower than the applicable Minimum Actuarial Premium.

 
Credit 
Enhancement 
Definition 
Maximum CEF 
(Country Risk 
Category 1–7) 
Maximum 
Discount (Market 
Benchmark) 
Asset 
Based 
Security 
Control of an asset shown by: 
(1) mortgage on very mobile and valuable piece of property; and 
(2) property that has entire value in itself. 
An asset based security is one that can be reacquired with relative 
ease such as a locomotive, medical equipment or construction 
equipment. In valuing such a security, the ECA should take 
into consideration the legal ease of recovery. In other words, 
there is more value when the security interest in the asset is 
perfected under an established legal regime and less value 
where the legal ability to recover the asset is questionable. The 
precise value of an asset-based security is set by the market, with 
the relevant “market” being deeper than a local market because 
the asset can be moved to another jurisdiction. NOTE: The appli­
cation of an asset based security credit enhancement for trans­
actions subject to country risk category 1–7 MPRs applies to the 
buyer risk, where the asset based security is held internally within 
the country in which the transaction is domiciled. 
0,25 
15 % 
Fixed 
Asset 
Security 
A fixed asset security is most typically component equipment 
which may be constrained by its physicality such as turbine or 
manufacturing machinery integrated into an assembly line. The 
intent and value of the fixed asset security is to provide the ECA 
with more leverage over the use of the asset in recouping losses 
in the event of default. The value of a fixed asset security varies 
dependent on economic, legal, market and other factors. 
0,15 
10 % 
Escrow 
Account 
Escrow accounts involve debt service reserve accounts held as 
security for the lenders or other forms of cash receivable 
accounts held as security for the lenders by a party not controlled 
or sharing common ownership with the buyer/obligor. The 
escrowed amount must be deposited or escrowed in advance. 
The value of such security is nearly always 100 % of the 
nominal amount in such cash accounts. Permits greater control 
over use of cash, ensures that debt is serviced before discretionary 
spending. NOTE: The application of an escrow account credit 
enhancement for transactions subject to country risk category 
1–7 MPRs applies to the buyer risk, where the escrow account 
is held internally within the country in which the transaction is 
domiciled. Cash security significantly diminishes the risk of 
default for the covered instalments. 
escrowed 
amount as % 
of credit up to 
a maximum of 
0,10 
escrowed 
amount as % of 
credit up to a 
maximum of 
10 %
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/103

 
ANNEX XIII 
CHECKLIST OF DEVELOPMENTAL QUALITY 
CHECKLIST OF DEVELOPMENTAL QUALITY OF AID FINANCED PROJECTS 
A number of criteria have been developed in recent years by the DAC to ensure that projects in developing countries 
that are financed totally or in part by Official Development Assistance (ODA) contribute to development. They are 
essentially contained in the: 
— DAC Principles for Project Appraisal, 1988; 
— DAC Guiding Principles for Associated Financing and Tied and Partially Untied Official Development Assistance, 
1987; and 
— Good Procurement Practices for Official Development Assistance, 1986. Of these, the DAC Principles for Project 
Appraisal and the Good Procurement Practices for Official Development Assistance were, together with several other 
“principles” or “good practices” the DAC produced, published together in the Development Assistance Manual, DAC 
Principles for Effective Aid (DAM) in 1992. 
CONSISTENCY OF THE PROJECT WITH THE RECIPIENT COUNTRY’S OVERALL INVESTMENT PRIORITIES (PROJECT SELECTION) 
Is the project part of investment and public expenditure programmes already approved by the central financial and 
planning authorities of the recipient country? 
(Specify policy document mentioning the project, e.g. public investment programme of the recipient country.) 
Is the project being co-financed with an international development finance institution? 
Does evidence exist that the project has been considered and rejected by an international development finance insti­
tution or another DAC Member on grounds of low developmental priority? 
In the case of a private sector project, has it been approved by the government of the recipient country? 
Is the project covered by an intergovernmental agreement providing for a broader range of aid activities by the donor in 
the recipient country? 
PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL 
Has the project been prepared, designed and appraised against a set of standards and criteria broadly consistent with the 
DAC Principles for Project Appraisal from paragraphs 91–162 of the DAM? Relevant principles concern project 
appraisal under: 
a) Economic aspects (paragraphs 120 to 128 DAM). 
b) Technical aspects (paragraph 112 DAM). 
c) Financial aspects (paragraphs 113 to 119 DAM). 
In the case of a revenue producing project, particularly if it is producing for a competitive market, has the concessionary 
element of the aid financing been passed on to the end-user of the funds? (paragraph 115 DAM). 
a) Institutional assessment (paragraphs 130 to 134 DAM). 
b) Social and distributional analysis (paragraphs 137 to 147 DAM). 
c) Environmental assessment (paragraphs 145 to 147 DAM).
EN 
L 38/104 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES 
What procurement mode will be used among the following? (For definitions, see Principles listed in Good Procurement 
Practices for ODA from paragraphs 409–429 of the DAM). 
a) International competitive bidding (paragraphs 411 and 419–429 DAM: Minimum conditions for effective 
international competitive bidding). 
b) National competitive bidding (paragraph 412 DAM). 
c) Informal competition or direct negotiations (paragraphs 413–414 DAM). 
Is it envisaged to check price and quality of supplies (paragraph 153 DAM)?
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/105

 
ANNEX XIV 
LIST OF DEFINITIONS 
For the purpose of the Arrangement: 
a) Commitment: any statement, in whatever form, whereby the willingness or intention to provide official support is 
communicated to the recipient country, the buyer, the borrower, the exporter or the financial institution. 
b) Common Line: an understanding between the Participants to agree, for a given transaction or in special circum­
stances, on specific financial terms and conditions for official support. The rules of an agreed Common Line 
supersede the rules of the Arrangement only for the transaction or in the circumstances specified in the 
Common Line. 
c) Concessionality Level of Tied Aid: in the case of grants the concessionality level is 100 %. In the case of loans, 
the concessionality level is the difference between the nominal value of the loan and the discounted present value of 
the future debt service payments to be made by the borrower. This difference is expressed as a percentage of the 
nominal value of the loan. 
d) Decommissioning: closing down or dismantling of a nuclear power plant. 
e) Export Contract Value: the total amount to be paid by or on behalf of the purchaser for goods and/or services 
exported, i.e. excluding local costs as defined hereafter; in the case of a lease, it excludes the portion of the lease 
payment that is equivalent to interest. 
f) 
Final Commitment: for an export credit transaction (either in the form of a single transaction or a line of credit), a 
final commitment exists when the Participant commits to precise and complete financial terms and conditions, 
either through a reciprocal agreement or by a unilateral act. 
g) Initial Fuel Load: the initial fuel load shall consist of no more than the initially installed nuclear core plus two 
subsequent reloads, together consisting of up to two-thirds of a nuclear core. 
h) Interest Rate Support: an arrangement between a government and banks or other financial institutions which 
allows the provision of fixed rate export finance at or above the CIRR. 
i) 
Line of Credit: a framework, in whatever form, for export credits that covers a series of transactions which may or 
may not be linked to a specific project. 
j) 
Local Costs: expenditure for goods and services in the buyer’s country that are necessary either for executing the 
exporter’s contract or for completing the project of which the exporter’s contract forms a part. These exclude 
commission payable to the exporter’s agent in the buying country. 
k) Market Benchmark Transaction: transaction involving ultimate obligors/guarantors in Category 0 countries, High 
Income OECD countries and High Income Euro Area countries. 
l) 
Minimum Actuarial Premium: is the annualised average default rate (derived from cumulative default rates 
published by the main Accredited CRAs) for a given rating and total term (WAL of the whole transaction) 
adjusted by an assumed loss given default and a costs loading factor as per agreed conventions by the Participants. 
m) Name Specific Bond or CDS: a Name Specific Bond or CDS is limited to those market benchmark instruments 
that belong to the exact identical obligor/guarantor as in the transaction being supported. 
n) Pure Cover: official support provided by or on behalf of a government by way of export credit guarantee or 
insurance only, i.e. which does not benefit from official financing support.
EN 
L 38/106 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
o) Related Entity: Related Entity references are benchmark instruments of a related borrower rather than the exact 
identical borrower in the supported transaction. In the case where the obligor has no quoted bonds or CDSs, and 
there exists within the obligor’s organisational structure a parent, subsidiary or sister company with Name Specific 
Bonds or CDSs outstanding in the market, then with regard to Article 23 c), those Name Specific Bonds or CDSs 
may be used as if they had been issued by the obligor itself if: 
1) The parent, subsidiary, or sister company has the same issuer CRA rating as the obligor/guarantor; or 
2) All of the following criteria are met: 
i. The Participant’s internal rating of the obligor/guarantor corresponds with the CRA rating of the related 
entity. 
ii. The obligor/guarantor is the main operating company of the parent/holding, being a key and integral part of 
the group’s business. 
iii. The CRA rating is based on the core business of the group. 
iv. The obligor/guarantor provides a significant part of the group’s earnings by providing either some of the 
group’s core products/services to core clients or it owns and operates a major portion of the parent’s assets. 
v. The sale of the obligor/guarantor from the group is very hard to conceive, and the disposal would signifi­
cantly alter the overall shape of the group. 
vi. A default of the obligor/guarantor would constitute a huge reputational risk to the group, damage its 
franchise and could threaten its viability. 
vii. A high level of management and operational integration exists where capital and funding is typically 
provided by the parent company or a finance subsidiary via intercompany loans and where parent 
support is unquestioned. 
p) Repayment Term: the period beginning at the starting point of credit, as defined in this Annex, and ending on the 
contractual date of the final repayment of principal. 
q) Starting Point of Credit: 
1) Parts or components (intermediate goods) including related services: in the case of parts or components, the starting 
point of credit is not later than the actual date of acceptance of the goods or the weighted mean date of 
acceptance of the goods (including services, if applicable) by the buyer or, for services, the date of the submission 
of the invoices to the client or acceptance of services by the client. 
2) Quasi-capital goods, including related services – machinery or equipment, generally of relatively low unit value, intended to 
be used in an industrial process or for productive or commercial use: in the case of quasi-capital goods, the starting 
point of credit is not later than the actual date of acceptance of the goods or the weighted mean date of 
acceptance of the goods by the buyer or, if the exporter has responsibilities for commissioning, then the latest 
starting point is at commissioning, or for services, the date of the submission of the invoices to the client or 
acceptance of the service by the client. In the case of a contract for the supply of services where the supplier has 
responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is commissioning. 
3) Capital goods and project services – machinery or equipment of high value intended to be used in an industrial process or for 
productive or commercial use: 
— In the case of a contract for the sale of capital goods consisting of individual items usable in themselves, the 
latest starting point is the actual date when the buyer takes physical possession of the goods, or the weighted 
mean date when the buyer takes physical possession of the goods. 
— In the case of a contract for the sale of capital equipment for complete plant or factories where the supplier 
has no responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is the date at which the buyer is to take 
physical possession of the entire equipment (excluding spare parts) supplied under the contract.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/107

 
— If the exporter has responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is at commissioning. 
— For services, the latest starting point of credit is the date of the submission of the invoices to the client or 
acceptance of service by the client. In the case of a contract for the supply of services where the supplier has 
responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is commissioning. 
4) Complete plants or factories – complete productive units of high value requiring the use of capital goods: 
— In the case of a contract for the sale of capital equipment for complete plant or factories where the supplier 
has no responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point of credit is the date when the buyer takes 
physical possession of the entire equipment (excluding spare parts) supplied under the contract. 
— In case of construction contracts where the contractor has no responsibility for commissioning, the latest 
starting point is the date when construction has been completed. 
— In the case of any contract where the supplier or contractor has a contractual responsibility for commis­
sioning, the latest starting point is the date when he has completed installation or construction and 
preliminary tests to ensure it is ready for operation. This applies whether or not it is handed over to the 
buyer at that time in accordance with the terms of the contract and irrespective of any continuing 
commitment which the supplier or contractor may have, e.g. for guaranteeing its effective functioning or 
training local personnel. 
— Where the contract involves the separate execution of individual parts of a project, the date of the latest 
starting point is the date of the starting point for each separate part, or the mean date of those starting 
points, or, where the supplier has a contract, not for the whole project but for an essential part of it, the 
starting point may be that appropriate to the project as a whole. 
— For services, the latest starting point of credit is the date of the submission of the invoices to the client or the 
acceptance of service by the client. In the case of a contract for the supply of services where the supplier has 
responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is commissioning. 
r) 
Tied Aid: aid which is in effect (in law or in fact) tied to the procurement of goods and/or services from the donor 
country and/or a restricted number of countries; it includes loans, grants or associated financing packages with a 
concessionality level greater than zero percent. 
This definition applies whether the “tying” is by formal agreement or by any form of informal understanding 
between the recipient and the donor country, or whether a package includes components from the forms set out in 
Article 32 of the Arrangement that are not freely and fully available to finance procurement from the recipient 
country, substantially all other developing countries and from the Participants, or if it involves practices that the 
DAC or the Participants consider equivalent to such tying. 
s) 
Untied Aid: aid which includes loans or grants whose proceeds are fully and freely available to finance 
procurement from any country. 
t) 
Weighted Average Life of the Repayment Period: the time that it takes to retire one-half of the principal of a 
credit. This is calculated as the sum of time (in years) between the starting point of credit and each principal 
repayment weighted by the portion of principal repaid at each repayment date.
EN 
L 38/108 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
ANNEX XV 
COMMERCIAL INTEREST REFERENCE RATE (CIRR) PROVISIONS 
CHAPTER I 
General provisions 
1. CONSTRUCTION OF CIRRs 
(a) Each Participant wishing to establish a CIRR shall initially select one of the following two base rate systems for its 
national currency: 
(1) three-year government bond yields for a repayment term of up to and including five years; five-year 
government bond yields for over five and up to and including eight and a half years; and seven-year 
government bond yields for over eight and a half years; or 
(2) five-year government bond yields for all maturities. 
Exceptions to the base rate system shall be agreed by the Participants. 
(b) CIRRs shall be set at a fixed margin of 100 basis points above each Participant’s base rate unless Participants have 
agreed otherwise. 
(c) Other Participants shall use the CIRR set for a particular currency should they decide to finance in that currency. 
(d) A Participant may change its base-rate system after giving six months’ advance notice and with the counsel of the 
Participants. 
(e) A Participant or a non-Participant may request that a CIRR be established for the currency of a non-Participant. 
In consultation with the interested non-Participant, a Participant or the Secretariat on behalf of that non- 
Participant may make a proposal for the construction of the CIRR in that currency using Common Line 
procedures in accordance with Articles 56 to 61. 
2. VALIDITY OF CIRRs 
The interest rate applying to a transaction shall not be fixed for a period longer than 120 days. A margin of 20 basis 
points shall be added to the relevant CIRR if the terms and conditions of the official financing support are fixed 
before the contract date. 
3. APPLICATION OF CIRRs 
a) Where official financing support is provided for floating rate loans, banks and other financing institutions shall 
not be allowed to offer the option of the lower of either the CIRR (at time of the original contract) or the short- 
term market rate throughout the life of the loan. 
b) In the event of a voluntary, early repayment of a loan of or any portion thereof, the borrower shall compensate 
the government institution providing official financing support for all costs and losses incurred as a result of such 
early repayment, including the cost to the government institution of replacing the part of the fixed rate cash 
inflow interrupted by the early repayment.
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/109

 
CHAPTER II 
Specific provisions 
4. CONSTRUCTION OF CIRRs FOR TRANSACTIONS UNDER ANNEX II AND ANNEX IV OF THE ARRANGEMENT 
a) The applicable CIRRs for official financing support provided in accordance with the provisions of the Sector 
Understandings on Export Credits for Nuclear Power Plants (Annex II) and for Renewable Energy, Climate Change 
Mitigation and Adaptation, and Water Projects (Annex IV) are constructed using to the following base rates and 
margins: 
Repayment Term (years) 
New nuclear power stations and Annex IV projects 
with long construction periods ( 1 ) 
All other contracts ( 2 ) 
Base Rate 
(Government bonds) 
Margin(bps) 
Base Rate 
(Government bonds) 
Margin(bps) 
< 11 
Relevant CIRR in accordance with Chapter I, Article 1 of this Annex XV 
11 to 12 
7 years 
100 
7 years 
100 
13 
8 years 
120 
7 years 
120 
14 
9 years 
120 
8 years 
120 
15 
9 years 
120 
8 years 
120 
16 
10 years 
125 
9 years 
120 
17 
10 years 
130 
9 years 
120 
18 
10 years 
130 
10 years 
120 
( 1 ) For new nuclear power plants, Article 1 a) 1) of Annex II refers. For Annex IV, this includes new large hydro-power 
projects, Appendix II Project Class A, and Appendix III Adaptation Projects. 
( 2 ) For new nuclear power plants, Articles 1 a) 2) to 4) of Annex II refers. For Annex IV, this includes all projects not covered 
in footnote 1 above. 
b) The currencies that are eligible for official financing support are those which are fully convertible and for which 
data are available to construct the minimum interest rates mentioned in Article 4 a) above, and in Article 1 of this 
Annex XV for repayment terms less than 11 years. 
5. CONSTRUCTION OF CIRRs FOR TRANSACTIONS UNDER ANNEX V AND ANNEX VI OF THE ARRANGEMENT 
A Participant providing official financing support for fixed rate loans in accordance with the provisions of the Sector 
Understandings for Rail Infrastructure (Annex V) or the Terms and Conditions Applicable to Project Finance Trans­
actions (Annex VI): shall apply, as minimum interest rates: 
a) For repayment terms of up to and including 12 years, the relevant CIRR in accordance with Article 1 of this 
Annex XV. 
b) For repayment terms in excess of 12 years, the relevant CIRRs constructed in accordance with Article 1 of this 
Annex XV, to which a surcharge of 20 basis points shall be added for all currencies.
EN 
L 38/110 
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.2.2023

 
CHAPTER III 
Operational provisions for the communication of minimum interest rates (CIRRs) 
6. COMMUNICATION OF MINIMUM INTEREST RATES 
a) CIRRs for currencies that are determined according to the provisions of Chapter I of this Annex XV shall be sent 
by means of instant communication at least monthly to the Secretariat for circulation to all Participants. 
b) Such notification shall reach the Secretariat no later than five days after the end of each month covered by this 
information. The Secretariat shall then inform immediately all Participants of the applicable rates and make them 
publicly available. 
7. EFFECTIVE DATE FOR APPLICATION OF INTEREST RATES 
Any changes in the CIRRs shall enter into effect on the fifteenth day after the end of each month. 
8. IMMEDIATE CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES 
When market developments require the notification of an amendment to a CIRR during the course of a month, 
the amended rate shall be implemented 10 days after notification of this amendment has been received by the 
Secretariat.’
EN 
8.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 38/111