I 
(Legislative acts) 
REGULATIONS 
REGULATION (EU) 2019/515 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 19 March 2019 
on the mutual recognition of goods lawfully marketed in another Member State and repealing 
Regulation (EC) No 764/2008 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 114 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, 
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (1), 
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (2), 
Whereas: 
(1)  
The internal market comprises an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods is ensured 
in accordance with the Treaties. Quantitative restrictions on imports and all measures having equivalent effect are 
prohibited between Member States. That prohibition covers any national measure which is capable of hindering, 
directly or indirectly, actually or potentially, intra-Union trade in goods. The free movement of goods is ensured 
in the internal market by the harmonisation of rules at Union level that set common requirements for the 
marketing of certain goods or, for goods or aspects of goods not exhaustively covered by Union harmonisation 
rules, by the application of the principle of mutual recognition as defined by the Court of Justice of the European 
Union. 
(2)  
A well-functioning principle of mutual recognition is an essential complement to harmonisation of rules at 
Union level, especially considering that many goods have both harmonised and non-harmonised aspects. 
(3)  
Obstacles to the free movement of goods between Member States may be unlawfully created if, in the absence of 
Union harmonisation rules covering goods or certain aspects of goods, a Member State's competent authority 
applies national rules to goods that are lawfully marketed in another Member State, requiring the goods to meet 
certain technical requirements, for example, requirements relating to designation, form, size, weight, composition, 
presentation, labelling or packaging. The application of such rules to goods that are lawfully marketed in another 
Member State could be contrary to Articles 34 and 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 
(TFEU), even if the rules apply to all goods without distinction. 
(4)  
The principle of mutual recognition derives from the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 
According to this principle, Member States may not prohibit the sale on their territory of goods which are 
29.3.2019 
L 91/1 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) OJ C 283, 10.8.2018, p. 19. 
(2) Position of the European Parliament of 14 February 2019 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of 
5 March 2019. 
lawfully marketed in another Member State, even where those goods have been produced in accordance with 
different technical rules, including goods that are not the result of a manufacturing process. But the principle of 
mutual recognition is not absolute. Member States can restrict the marketing of goods that have been lawfully 
marketed in another Member State, where such restrictions are justified on the grounds set out in Article 36 
TFEU or on the basis of other overriding reasons of public interest, recognised by the case-law of the Court of 
Justice of the European Union in relation to the free movement of goods, and where those restrictions are 
proportionate to the aim pursued. This Regulation imposes the obligation to clearly justify why market access has 
been restricted or denied. 
(5)  
The concept of overriding reasons of public interest is an evolving concept developed by the Court of Justice of 
the European Union in its case-law in relation to Articles 34 and 36 TFEU. Where legitimate differences exist 
from one Member State to another, such overriding reasons might justify the application of national technical 
rules by the competent authorities. However, administrative decisions always need to be duly justified, to be 
legitimate, to be appropriate and to respect the principle of proportionality, and the competent authority has to 
make the least restrictive decision possible. In order to improve the functioning of the internal market for goods, 
the national technical rules should be fit for purpose and should not create disproportionate non-tariff 
barriers. Furthermore, administrative decisions restricting or denying market access in respect of goods that are 
lawfully marketed in another Member State must not be based on the mere fact that the goods under assessment 
fulfil the legitimate public objective pursued by the Member State in a different way from the way in which goods 
in that Member State fulfil that objective. In order to assist Member States, the Commission should provide non- 
binding guidance in relation to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the concept of 
overriding reasons of public interest and how to apply the principle of mutual recognition. Competent 
authorities should have the opportunity to provide contributions and deliver feedback on the guidance. 
(6)  
In its Conclusions on the Single Market Policy of December 2013, the Competitiveness Council noted that to 
improve framework conditions for businesses and consumers in the Single Market, all relevant instruments 
should be appropriately employed, including mutual recognition. The Council invited the Commission to report 
on cases where the functioning of the principle of mutual recognition is still inadequate or problematic. In its 
Conclusions on the Single Market Policy of February 2015, the Competitiveness Council urged the Commission 
to take steps to ensure that the principle of mutual recognition functioned effectively and to bring forward 
proposals to that effect. 
(7)  
Regulation (EC) No 764/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) was adopted in order to 
facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition by establishing procedures to minimise the 
possibility of creating unlawful obstacles to the free movement of goods which have already been lawfully 
marketed in another Member State. Despite the adoption of that Regulation, many problems still exist as regards 
the application of the principle of mutual recognition. The evaluation carried out between 2014 and 2016 
showed that the principle of mutual recognition does not function as it should, and that Regulation (EC) 
No 764/2008 has had limited effect in facilitating the application of that principle. The tools and procedural 
guarantees put in place by that Regulation failed in their aim of improving the application of the principle of 
mutual recognition. For example, the Product Contact Points network which was put in place in order to provide 
information to economic operators on applicable national rules and the application of the principle of mutual 
recognition is barely known or used by economic operators. Within that network, national authorities do not 
cooperate sufficiently. The requirement to notify administrative decisions restricting or denying market access is 
rarely complied with. As a result, obstacles to the free movement of goods in the internal market remain. 
(8)  
Regulation (EC) No 764/2008 has several shortcomings, and should therefore be revised and strengthened. For 
the sake of clarity, Regulation (EC) No 764/2008 should be replaced by this Regulation. This Regulation should 
establish clear procedures to ensure the free movement of goods lawfully marketed in another Member State and 
to ensure that free movement can be restricted only where Member States have legitimate public interest grounds 
for doing so and that the restriction is justified and proportionate. This Regulation should also ensure that 
existing rights and obligations deriving from the principle of mutual recognition are observed, by both economic 
operators and national authorities. 
(9)  
This Regulation should not prejudice the further harmonisation of conditions for the marketing of goods with 
a view to improving the functioning of the internal market, where appropriate. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/2 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(3) Regulation (EC) No 764/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 laying down procedures relating to the 
application of certain national technical rules to products lawfully marketed in another Member State and repealing Decision 
No 3052/95/EC (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 21). 
(10)  
It is also possible for trade barriers to result from other types of measures falling under the scope of Articles 34 
and 36 TFEU. Those measures can include, for example, technical specifications drawn up for public procurement 
procedures or requirements to use official languages in the Member States. However, such measures should not 
constitute national technical rules within the meaning of this Regulation and should not fall within its scope. 
(11)  
National technical rules are sometimes given effect in a Member State by means of a prior authorisation 
procedure, under which formal approval has to be obtained from a competent authority before the goods can be 
placed on the market there. The existence of a prior authorisation procedure in itself restricts the free movement 
of goods. Therefore, in order to be justified with regard to the fundamental principle of the free movement of 
goods within the internal market, such a procedure has to pursue a public interest objective recognised by Union 
law, and it has to be proportionate and non-discriminatory. The compliance of such a procedure with Union law 
is to be assessed in the light of the considerations set out in the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European 
Union. Therefore, administrative decisions restricting or denying market access exclusively on the grounds that 
the goods do not have a valid prior authorisation should be excluded from the scope of this Regulation. When, 
however, an application for mandatory prior authorisation of goods is made, any administrative decision to reject 
the application on the basis of a national technical rule applicable in that Member State should only be taken in 
accordance with this Regulation, so that the applicant can benefit from the procedural protection which this 
Regulation provides. The same applies to voluntary prior authorisation of goods, where it exists. 
(12)  
It is important to clarify that the types of goods covered by this Regulation include agricultural products. The 
term ‘agricultural products’ includes products of fisheries, as provided for in Article 38(1) TFEU. In order to help 
to identify which types of goods are subject to this Regulation, the Commission should assess the feasibility and 
benefits of further developing an indicative product list for mutual recognition. 
(13)  
It is also important to clarify that the term ‘producer’ includes not only manufacturers of goods, but also persons 
who produce goods which were not the result of a manufacturing process, including agricultural products, as 
well as persons who present themselves as the producers of goods. 
(14)  
Decisions of national courts or tribunals assessing the legality of cases in which, on account of the application of 
a national technical rule, goods lawfully marketed in one Member State are not granted access to the market in 
another Member State, and decisions of national courts or tribunals applying penalties, should be excluded from 
the scope of this Regulation. 
(15)  
To benefit from the principle of mutual recognition, goods must be lawfully marketed in another Member State. 
It should be clarified that, for goods to be considered to be lawfully marketed in another Member State, the 
goods need to comply with the relevant rules applicable in that Member State, and need to be made available to 
end users in that Member State. 
(16)  
To raise awareness on the part of national authorities and economic operators of the principle of mutual 
recognition, Member States should consider providing for clear and unambiguous ‘single market clauses’ in their 
national technical rules with a view to facilitating the application of that principle. 
(17)
The evidence required to demonstrate that goods are lawfully marketed in another Member State varies signifi­
cantly from Member State to Member State. This causes unnecessary burdens, delays and additional costs for 
economic operators, and prevents national authorities from obtaining the information necessary for assessing the 
goods in a timely manner. This may inhibit the application of the principle of mutual recognition. It is therefore 
essential to make it easier for economic operators to demonstrate that their goods are lawfully marketed in 
another Member State. Economic operators should benefit from a self-declaration that provides competent 
authorities with all necessary information on the goods and on their compliance with the rules applicable in that 
other Member State. The use of voluntary declarations should not prevent national authorities from taking 
administrative decisions restricting or denying market access, provided that such decisions are proportionate, 
justified and respect the principle of mutual recognition and are in accordance with this Regulation. 
(18)  
It should be possible for the producer, importer or distributor to draw up a declaration of lawful marketing of 
goods for the purposes of mutual recognition (‘mutual recognition declaration’). The producer is best placed to 
provide the information in the mutual recognition declaration as the producer knows the goods best and is in 
possession of the evidence necessary to verify the information in the mutual recognition declaration. The 
producer should be able to mandate an authorised representative to draw up such declarations on the producer's 
29.3.2019 
L 91/3 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
behalf and under the responsibility of the producer. However, where an economic operator is only able to 
provide the information on the lawfulness of the marketing of the goods in the declaration, it should be possible 
for another economic operator to provide the information that the goods are being made available to end users 
in the Member State concerned, provided that that economic operator takes responsibility for the information 
that it provided in the mutual recognition declaration and is able to provide the necessary evidence to verify this 
information. 
(19)  
The mutual recognition declaration should always contain accurate and complete information on the goods. The 
declaration should therefore be kept up to date in order to reflect changes, for example changes in the relevant 
national technical rules. 
(20)  
In order to ensure that the information provided in a mutual recognition declaration is comprehensive, 
a harmonised structure for such declarations should be laid down for use by economic operators wishing to 
make such declarations. 
(21)  
It is important to ensure that the mutual recognition declaration is filled in truthfully and accurately. It is 
therefore necessary to require economic operators to be responsible for the information provided by them in the 
mutual recognition declaration. 
(22)  
In order to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of businesses operating in the field of goods that are not 
covered by Union harmonisation legislation, it should be possible to benefit from new information technologies 
for the purpose of facilitating the provision of the mutual recognition declaration. Therefore, economic operators 
should be able to make their mutual recognition declarations publicly available online, provided that the mutual 
recognition declaration is easily accessible and is in a reliable format. 
(23)  
The Commission should ensure that a template for the mutual recognition declaration and guidelines for 
completing it are made available on the Single Digital Gateway in all of the official languages of the Union. 
(24)
This Regulation should also apply to goods in respect of which only some aspects are covered by Union harmon­
isation legislation. Where, pursuant to Union harmonisation legislation, the economic operator is required to 
draw up an EU declaration of conformity to demonstrate compliance with that legislation, that economic 
operator should be permitted to attach the mutual recognition declaration provided for by this Regulation to the 
EU declaration of conformity. 
(25)  
Where economic operators decide not to use the mutual recognition declaration, it should be for the competent 
authorities of the Member State of destination to make clearly defined requests for specific information that they 
consider to be necessary to assess the goods, with respect to the principle of proportionality. 
(26)  
The economic operator should be given appropriate time within which to submit documents or any other 
information requested by the competent authority of the Member State of destination, or to submit any 
arguments or comments in relation to the assessment of the goods in question. 
(27)  
Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council (4) requires Member States to 
communicate to the Commission and to the other Member States any draft national technical regulation 
concerning any product, including any agricultural or fishery product, and a statement of the grounds on which 
the enactment of that regulation is necessary. It is necessary, however, to ensure that, following the adoption of 
such a national technical regulation, the principle of mutual recognition is correctly applied to specific goods in 
individual cases. This Regulation should lay down procedures for the application of the principle of mutual 
recognition in individual cases, for example, by requiring Member States to indicate the national technical rules 
on which the administrative decision is based and the legitimate public interest grounds that justify the 
application of that national technical rule with respect to a good that has been lawfully marketed in another 
Member State. The proportionality of the national technical rule is the basis for demonstrating the proportionality 
of the administrative decision that is based on that rule. However, the means by which the proportionality of the 
administrative decision is to be demonstrated should be determined on a case-by-case basis. 
(28)  
As administrative decisions restricting or denying market access for goods that are already lawfully marketed in 
another Member State should be exceptions to the fundamental principle of the free movement of goods, it is 
29.3.2019 
L 91/4 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(4) Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 laying down a procedure for the 
provision of information in the field of technical regulations and of rules on Information Society services (OJ L 241, 17.9.2015, p. 1). 
necessary to ensure that such decisions observe the existing obligations that derive from the principle of mutual 
recognition. It is therefore appropriate to establish a clear procedure for determining whether goods are lawfully 
marketed in that other Member State and, if so, whether the legitimate public interests covered by the applicable 
national technical rule of the Member State of destination are adequately protected, in accordance with Article 36 
TFEU and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Such procedure should ensure that any 
administrative decisions that are taken are proportionate and respect the principle of mutual recognition and are 
in accordance with this Regulation. 
(29)  
Where a competent authority is assessing goods before deciding whether to restrict or deny market access, that 
authority should not be able to take decisions to suspend market access, except where rapid intervention is 
required to prevent harm to the safety or health of persons, to prevent harm to the environment, or to prevent 
the goods from being made available in cases where the making available of such goods is generally prohibited 
on grounds of public morality or public security, including, for example, the prevention of crime. 
(30)
Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (5) establishes a system of accredita­
tion which ensures the mutual acceptance of the level of competence of conformity assessment bodies. The 
competent authorities of Member States should therefore not refuse to accept test reports and certificates issued 
by an accredited conformity assessment body on grounds related to the competence of that body. Furthermore, 
in order to avoid as far as possible the duplication of tests and procedures which have been already carried out in 
another Member State, Member States should not refuse to accept test reports and certificates issued by other 
conformity assessment bodies in accordance with Union law. Competent authorities should take due account of 
the content of the test reports or certificates submitted. 
(31)  
Directive 2001/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (6) specifies that only safe products may be 
placed on the market and lays down the obligations of producers and distributors with respect to the safety of 
products. It entitles the competent authorities to ban any dangerous product with immediate effect or to ban 
products that could be dangerous temporarily for the period needed for the various safety evaluations, checks 
and controls. That Directive also describes the procedure for competent authorities to apply appropriate 
measures if products pose a risk, such as the measures referred to in points (b) to (f) of Article 8(1) of that 
Directive, and it also imposes an obligation on Member States to notify such measures to the Commission and 
the other Member States. Therefore, competent authorities should be able to continue applying that Directive 
and, in particular, points (b) to (f) of Article 8(1) and Article 8(3) of that Directive. 
(32)  
Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (7) establishes, inter alia, a rapid 
alert system for the notification of direct or indirect risks to human health deriving from food or feed. It requires 
Member States to notify the Commission immediately, using the rapid alert system, of any measure they adopt 
which is aimed at restricting the placing on the market of food or feed, or withdrawing or recalling food or feed, 
for the purpose of protecting human health, and which requires rapid action. Competent authorities should be 
able to continue applying that Regulation and, in particular, Articles 50(3) and 54 of that Regulation. 
(33)  
Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of European Parliament and of the Council (8) establishes a harmonised Union 
framework for the organisation of official controls, and for the organisation of official activities other than 
29.3.2019 
L 91/5 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(5) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the requirements for accredita­
tion and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, 
p. 30). 
(6) Directive 2001/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 December 2001 on general product safety (OJ L 11, 
15.1.2002, p. 4). 
(7) Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and 
requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety 
(OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1). 
(8) Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official 
activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection 
products, amending Regulations (EC) No 999/2001, (EC) No 396/2005, (EC) No 1069/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009, (EU) No 1151/2012, 
(EU) No 652/2014, (EU) 2016/429 and (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Regulations (EC) 
No 1/2005 and (EC) No 1099/2009 and Council Directives 98/58/EC, 1999/74/EC, 2007/43/EC, 2008/119/EC and 2008/120/EC, and 
repealing Regulations (EC) No 854/2004 and (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council Directives 
89/608/EEC, 89/662/EEC, 90/425/EEC, 91/496/EEC, 96/23/EC, 96/93/EC and 97/78/EC and Council Decision 92/438/EEC (Official 
Controls Regulation) (OJ L 95, 7.4.2017, p. 1). 
official controls, along the entire agri-food chain, taking into account the rules on official controls laid down in 
Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (9) and in relevant Union sectoral 
legislation. Regulation (EU) 2017/625 lays down a specific procedure for ensuring that economic operators 
remedy situations of non-compliance with food and feed law, animal health rules or animal welfare 
rules. Competent authorities should be able to continue applying Regulation (EU) 2017/625 and, in particular, 
Article 138 thereof. 
(34)  
Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (10) establishes a harmonised 
Union framework for carrying out checks in respect of the obligations laid down in Regulation (EU) 
No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (11) in accordance with the criteria laid down in 
Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 and specifies that Member States shall ensure that any operator complying with 
those obligations is entitled to be covered by a system of checks. Competent authorities should be able to 
continue applying Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and, in particular, Article 90 thereof. 
(35)  
Any administrative decision taken by competent authorities of Member States pursuant to this Regulation should 
specify the remedies available to the economic operator, so that an economic operator is able, in accordance with 
national law, to appeal against the decision or bring proceedings before the competent national court or tribunal. 
The administrative decision should also refer to the possibility for economic operators to use the Internal Market 
Problem Solving Network (SOLVIT) and the problem-solving procedure provided for in this Regulation. 
(36)
Effective solutions for economic operators wishing for a business friendly alternative when challenging adminis­
trative decisions restricting or denying market access are essential to ensure the correct and consistent application 
of the principle of mutual recognition. In order to guarantee such solutions, and to avoid legal costs, especially 
for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), a non-judicial problem-solving procedure should be available for 
economic operators. 
(37)  
SOLVIT is a service provided by the national administration in each Member State that aims to find solutions for 
individuals and businesses when their rights have been breached by public authorities in another Member State. 
The principles governing the functioning of SOLVIT are set out in Commission Recommendation 
2013/461/EU (12), according to which each Member State is to provide for a SOLVIT Centre that has adequate 
human and financial resources to ensure that the SOLVIT Centre takes part in SOLVIT. The Commission should 
increase awareness about the existence and benefits of SOLVIT, especially among businesses. 
(38)  
SOLVIT is an effective non-judicial, problem-solving mechanism that is provided free of charge. It works under 
short deadlines and provides practical solutions to individuals and businesses when they are experiencing 
difficulties in the recognition of their Union rights by public authorities. Where the economic operator, the 
relevant SOLVIT Centre and the Member States involved all agree on the appropriate outcome, no further action 
should be required. 
(39)  
However, where the SOLVIT's informal approach fails, and doubts remain regarding the compatibility of the 
administrative decision with the principle of mutual recognition, the Commission should be empowered to look 
into the matter at the request of any of the SOLVIT Centres involved. Following its assessment, the Commission 
should issue an opinion to be communicated through the relevant SOLVIT Centre to the economic operator 
concerned and to the competent authorities, which should be taken into account during the SOLVIT procedure. 
The Commission's intervention should be subject to a time-limit of 45 working days, which should not include 
the time necessary for the Commission to receive any additional information and documents that it considers 
necessary. If the case is solved during this period, the Commission should not be required to issue an opinion. 
Such SOLVIT cases should be subject to a separate workflow in the SOLVIT database and should not be included 
in the regular SOLVIT statistics. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/6 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(9) Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls performed to ensure 
the verification of compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules (OJ L 165, 30.4.2004, p. 1). 
(10) Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financing, management 
and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No 352/78, (EC) No 165/94, (EC) 
No 2799/98, (EC) No 814/2000, (EC) No 1290/2005 and (EC) No 485/2008 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 549). 
(11) Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a common 
organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No 922/72, (EEC) No 234/79, (EC) 
No 1037/2001 and (EC) No 1234/2007 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671). 
(12) Commission Recommendation 2013/461/EU of 17 September 2013 on the principles governing SOLVIT (OJ L 249, 19.9.2013, p. 10). 
(40)  
The opinion of the Commission as regards an administrative decision restricting or denying market access should 
only address whether the administrative decision is compatible with the principle of mutual recognition and with 
the requirements of this Regulation. This is without prejudice to the Commission's powers under Article 258 
TFEU and the Member States' obligation to comply with Union law, when addressing systemic problems 
identified as regards the application of the principle of mutual recognition. 
(41)  
It is important for the internal market for goods that businesses, in particular SMEs, can obtain reliable and 
specific information about the law in force in a given Member State. Product Contact Points should play an 
important role in facilitating communication between national authorities and economic operators by dissemi­
nating information about specific product rules and about how the principle of mutual recognition is applied in 
the territory of their Member State. Therefore, it is necessary to enhance the role of Product Contact Points as the 
principal providers of information on all product-related rules, including national technical rules covered by 
mutual recognition. 
(42)  
In order to facilitate the free movement of goods, Product Contact Points should provide, free of charge, 
a reasonable level of information on their national technical rules and the application of the principle of mutual 
recognition. Product Contact Points should be adequately equipped and resourced. In accordance with Regulation 
(EU) 2018/1724 of the European Parliament and of the Council (13) they should provide such information 
through a website and should be subject to the quality criteria set out in that Regulation. The tasks of Product 
Contact Points related to the provision of any such information, including electronic copies of, or online access 
to, the national technical rules, should be performed without prejudice to the national rules governing the 
distribution of national technical rules. Furthermore, Product Contact Points should not be required to provide 
copies of, or online access to, standards which are subject to the intellectual property rights of standardisation 
bodies or organisations. 
(43)  
Cooperation between competent authorities is essential for the smooth functioning of the principle of mutual 
recognition and for creating a mutual recognition culture. Product Contact Points and national competent 
authorities should therefore cooperate and exchange information and expertise in order to ensure the correct and 
consistent application of the principle of mutual recognition and this Regulation. 
(44)
For the purposes of notifying administrative decisions restricting or denying market access, allowing communi­
cation between Product Contact Points and ensuring administrative cooperation, it is necessary to provide 
Member States with access to an information and communication system. 
(45)  
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Regulation, implementing powers should 
be conferred on the Commission. Those powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) 
No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (14). 
(46)  
Where, for the purposes of this Regulation, it is necessary to process personal data, such processing should be 
carried out in accordance with Union law on the protection of personal data. Any processing of personal data 
under this Regulation is subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council (15) 
or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council (16). 
(47)  
Reliable and efficient monitoring mechanisms should be established to provide information on the application of 
this Regulation and on its impact on the free movement of goods. Such mechanisms should not go beyond what 
is necessary to achieve these objectives. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/7 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(13) Regulation (EU) 2018/1724 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2 October2018 establishing a single digital gateway to 
provide access to information, to procedures and to assistance and problem-solving services and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 1024/2012 (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 1). 
(14) Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general 
principles concerning mechanisms for control by the Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 
28.2.2011, p. 13). 
(15) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data 
Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1). 
(16) Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such 
data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39). 
(48)  
For the purposes of raising awareness about the principle of mutual recognition and ensuring that this 
Regulation is applied correctly and consistently, provision should be made for Union financing of awareness- 
raising campaigns, trainings, exchange of officials and other related activities aiming at enhancing and supporting 
trust and cooperation between competent authorities, Product Contact Points and economic operators. 
(49)  
In order to remedy the lack of accurate data related to the functioning of the principle of mutual recognition and 
its impact on the Single Market for goods, the Union should finance the collection of such data. 
(50)  
The financial interests of the Union should be protected through proportionate measures throughout the 
expenditure cycle, including the prevention, detection and investigation of irregularities, the recovery of funds 
lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used and, where appropriate, administrative and financial penalties. 
(51)  
It is appropriate to defer the application of this Regulation in order to allow competent authorities and economic 
operators sufficient time to adapt to the requirements laid down herein. 
(52)  
The Commission should carry out an evaluation of this Regulation in light of the objectives that it pursues. The 
Commission should use the data collected on the functioning of the principle of mutual recognition and its 
impact on the single market for goods and information available in the information and communication system 
to evaluate this Regulation. The Commission should be able to request Member States to provide additional 
information necessary for its evaluation. Pursuant to point 22 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 
2016 on Better Law Making (17), the evaluation of this Regulation, which should be based on efficiency, 
effectiveness, relevance, coherence and added value, should provide the basis for impact assessments of options 
for further action. 
(53)  
Since the objective of this Regulation, namely to ensure the smooth, consistent and correct application of the 
principle of mutual recognition, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States but can rather, by reason 
of its scale and effects, be better achieved at Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the 
principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the principle 
of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to 
achieve that objective, 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
CHAPTER I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Article 1 
Subject matter 
1.
The aim of this Regulation is to strengthen the functioning of the internal market by improving the application of 
the principle of mutual recognition and by removing unjustified barriers to trade. 
2.
This Regulation lays down rules and procedures concerning the application by Member States of the principle of 
mutual recognition in individual cases in relation to goods which are subject to Article 34 TFEU and which are lawfully 
marketed in another Member State, having regard to Article 36 TFEU and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the 
European Union. 
3.
This Regulation also provides for the establishment and maintenance of Product Contact Points in Member States 
and for cooperation and exchange of information in the context of the principle of mutual recognition. 
Article 2 
Scope 
1.
This Regulation applies to goods of any type, including agricultural products within the meaning of the second 
subparagraph of Article 38(1) TFEU, and to administrative decisions that have been taken or are to be taken by 
a competent authority of a Member State of destination in relation to any such goods that are lawfully marketed in 
another Member State, where the administrative decision meets the following criteria: 
(a)  the basis for the administrative decision is a national technical rule applicable in the Member State of destination; 
and 
(b)  the direct or indirect effect of the administrative decision is to restrict or deny market access in the Member State of 
destination. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(17) OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1. 
Administrative decision includes any administrative step that is based on a national technical rule and that has the same 
or substantially the same legal effect as the effect referred to in point (b). 
2.
For the purposes of this Regulation, a ‘national technical rule’ is any provision of a law, regulation or other 
administrative provision of a Member State which has the following characteristics: 
(a)  it covers goods or aspects of goods that are not the subject of harmonisation at Union level; 
(b)  it either prohibits the making available of goods, or goods of a given type, on the market in that Member State, or it 
makes compliance with the provision compulsory, de facto or de jure, whenever goods, or goods of a given type, are 
made available on that market; and 
(c)  it does at least one of the following: 
(i)  it lays down the characteristics required of goods or of goods of a given type, such as their levels of quality, 
performance or safety, or their dimensions, including the requirements applicable to those goods as regards the 
names under which they are sold, terminology, symbols, testing and test methods, packaging, marking or 
labelling and conformity assessment procedures; 
(ii)  for the purpose of protecting consumers or the environment, it imposes other requirements on goods or goods 
of a given type that affect the life-cycle of the goods after they have been made available on the market in that 
Member State, such as conditions of use, recycling, reuse or disposal, where such conditions can significantly 
influence either the composition or nature of those goods, or the making available of them on the market in 
that Member State. 
3.
Point (c)(i) of paragraph 2 of this Article also covers production methods and processes used in respect of 
agricultural products as referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 38(1) TFEU, and in respect of products 
intended for human or animal consumption, as well as production methods and processes relating to other products, 
where these have an effect on their characteristics. 
4.
A prior authorisation procedure does not itself constitute a national technical rule for the purposes of this 
Regulation, but a decision to refuse prior authorisation based on a national technical rule shall be considered to be 
an administrative decision to which this Regulation applies, if that decision fulfils the other requirements of the first sub­
paragraph of paragraph 1. 
5.
This Regulation does not apply to: 
(a)  decisions of a judicial nature taken by national courts or tribunals; 
(b)  decisions of a judicial nature taken by law enforcement authorities in the course of the investigation or prosecution 
of a criminal offence as regards the terminology, symbols or any material reference to unconstitutional or criminal 
organisations or offences of a racist, discriminatory or xenophobic nature. 
6.
Articles 5 and 6 shall not affect the application of the following provisions: 
(a)  points (b) to (f) of Article 8(1) and Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/95/EC; 
(b)  point (a) of Article 50(3) and Article 54 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002; 
(c)  Article 90 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013; and 
(d)  Article 138 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. 
7.
This Regulation does not affect the obligation under Directive (EU) 2015/1535 to notify draft national technical 
regulations to the Commission and the Member States prior to their adoption. 
Article 3 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply:  
(1) ‘lawfully marketed in another Member State’ means that goods or goods of that type comply with the relevant 
rules applicable in that Member State or are not subject to any such rules in that Member State, and are made 
available to end users in that Member State;  
(2) ‘making available on the market’ means any supply of goods for distribution, consumption or use on the market 
within the territory of a Member State in the course of a commercial activity, whether in return for payment or 
free of charge; 
29.3.2019 
L 91/9 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(3) ‘restricting market access’ means imposing conditions to be fulfilled before goods can be made available on 
the market in the Member State of destination, or conditions for keeping goods on that market, which in either 
case require the modification of one or more of the characteristics of those goods, as referred to in point (c)(i) of 
Article 2(2), or require the performance of additional testing;  
(4) ‘denying market access’ means any of the following: 
(a)  prohibiting goods from being made available on the market in the Member State of destination or from being 
kept on that market; or 
(b)  requiring the withdrawal or recall of those goods from that market;  
(5) ‘withdrawal’ means any measure aimed at preventing goods in the supply chain from being made available on the 
market;  
(6) ‘recall’ means any measure aimed at achieving the return of goods that have already been made available to the end 
user;  
(7) ‘prior authorisation procedure’ means an administrative procedure under the law of a Member State whereby the 
competent authority of that Member State is required, on the basis of an application by an economic operator, to 
give its formal approval before goods may be made available on the market in that Member State;  
(8) ‘producer’ means: 
(a)  any natural or legal person who manufactures goods or has goods designed or manufactured, or who produces 
goods which were not the result of a manufacturing process, including agricultural products, and markets them 
under that person's name or trademark, 
(b)  any natural or legal person who modifies goods already lawfully marketed in a Member State in a way that 
might affect compliance with the relevant rules applicable in that Member State, or 
(c)  any other natural or legal person who, by putting its name, trademark or other distinguishing feature on goods 
or on the documents that accompany those goods, presents itself as the producer of those goods;  
(9) ‘authorised representative’ means any natural or legal person established within the Union who has received 
a written mandate from a producer to act on that producer's behalf with regard to the making available of goods 
on the market in question;  
(10) ‘importer’ means any natural or legal person established within the Union who makes goods from a third country 
available on the Union market for the first time;  
(11) ‘distributor’ means any natural or legal person in the supply chain, other than the producer or the importer, who 
makes goods available on the market in a Member State;  
(12) ‘economic operator’ means any of the following in relation to goods: the producer, the authorised representative, 
the importer or the distributor;  
(13) ‘end user’ means any natural or legal person residing or established in the Union, to whom the goods have been 
made available or are being made available, either as a consumer outside of any trade, business, craft or profession 
or as a professional end user in the course of its industrial or professional activities;  
(14) ‘legitimate public interest grounds’ means any of the grounds set out in Article 36 TFEU or any other overriding 
reasons of public interest;  
(15) ‘conformity assessment body’ means a conformity assessment body as defined in point 13 of Article 2 of 
Regulation (EC) No 765/2008. 
CHAPTER II 
PROCEDURES CONCERNING APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLE OF MUTUAL RECOGNITION IN INDI­
VIDUAL CASES 
Article 4 
Mutual recognition declaration 
1.
The producer of goods, or of goods of a given type, that are being made or are to be made available on the market 
in the Member State of destination may draw up a voluntary declaration of lawful marketing of goods for the purposes 
of mutual recognition (‘mutual recognition declaration’) in order to demonstrate to the competent authorities of the 
Member State of destination that the goods, or the goods of that type, are lawfully marketed in another Member State. 
The producer may mandate its authorised representative to draw up the mutual recognition declaration on its behalf. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
The mutual recognition declaration shall follow the structure set out in Part I and Part II of the Annex and shall contain 
all the information specified therein. 
The producer or its authorised representative, where mandated to do so, may fill in the mutual recognition declaration 
with only the information set out in Part I of the Annex. In such case the information set out in Part II of the Annex 
shall be filled in by the importer or by the distributor. 
Alternatively, both parts of the mutual recognition declaration may be drawn up by the importer or by the distributor, 
provided that the signatory can supply the evidence referred to in point (a) of Article 5(4). 
The mutual recognition declaration shall be drawn up in one of the official languages of the Union. Where that 
language is not the language required by the Member State of destination, the economic operator shall translate the 
mutual recognition declaration into a language required by the Member State of destination. 
2.
Economic operators who sign the mutual recognition declaration or a part of it shall be responsible for the 
content and accuracy of the information that they provide in the mutual recognition declaration, including the 
correctness of the information they translate. For the purposes of this paragraph, economic operators shall be liable in 
accordance with national laws. 
3.
Economic operators shall ensure that the mutual recognition declaration is kept up to date at all times, reflecting 
any changes in the information that they have provided in the mutual recognition declaration. 
4.
The mutual recognition declaration may be supplied to the competent authority of the Member State of 
destination for the purposes of an assessment to be carried out under Article 5. It may be supplied either in paper form 
or by electronic means or be made available online in accordance with the requirements of the Member State of 
destination. 
5.
Where economic operators make the mutual recognition declaration available online, the following conditions 
apply: 
(a)  the type of goods or the series to which the mutual recognition declaration applies shall be easily identifiable; and 
(b)  the technical means used shall ensure easy navigation and shall be monitored to ensure the availability of, and access 
to, the mutual recognition declaration. 
6.
Where the goods for which the mutual recognition declaration is being supplied are also subject to a Union act 
requiring an EU declaration of conformity, the mutual recognition declaration may be attached to the EU declaration of 
conformity. 
Article 5 
Assessment of goods 
1.
Where a competent authority of the Member State of destination intends to assess goods subject to this Regulation 
to establish whether the goods or goods of that type are lawfully marketed in another Member State, and, if so, whether 
the legitimate public interests covered by the applicable national technical rule of the Member State of destination are 
adequately protected, having regard to the characteristics of the goods in question, it shall contact the economic 
operator concerned without delay. 
2.
When entering into contact with the economic operator concerned, the competent authority of the Member State 
of destination shall inform the economic operator of the assessment, indicating the goods that are subject to that 
assessment and specifying the applicable national technical rule or prior authorisation procedure. The competent 
authority of the Member State of destination shall also inform the economic operator of the possibility of supplying 
a mutual recognition declaration in accordance with Article 4 for the purposes of that assessment. 
3.
The economic operator shall be allowed to make the goods available on the market in the Member State of 
destination while the competent authority carries out the assessment under paragraph 1 of this Article, and may 
continue to do so unless the economic operator receives an administrative decision restricting or denying market access 
for those goods. This paragraph shall not apply where the assessment is carried out in the framework of a prior author­
isation procedure, or where the competent authority temporary suspends the making available on the market of the 
goods that are subject to that assessment in accordance with Article 6. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/11 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
4.
If a mutual recognition declaration is supplied to a competent authority of the Member State of destination in 
accordance with Article 4, then for the purposes of the assessment under paragraph 1 of this Article: 
(a)  the mutual recognition declaration, together with supporting evidence necessary to verify the information contained 
in it that was provided in response to a request by the competent authority, shall be accepted by the competent 
authority as sufficient to demonstrate that the goods are lawfully marketed in another Member State; and 
(b)  the competent authority shall not require any other information or documentation from any economic operator for 
the purpose of demonstrating that the goods are lawfully marketed in another Member State. 
5.
If a mutual recognition declaration is not supplied to a competent authority of the Member State of destination in 
accordance with Article 4, then for the purposes of the assessment under paragraph 1 of this Article, the competent 
authority may request the economic operators concerned to provide documentation and information that is necessary 
for that assessment concerning the following: 
(a)  the characteristics of the goods or type of goods in question; and 
(b)  lawful marketing of the goods in another Member State. 
6.
The economic operator concerned shall be allowed at least 15 working days following the request of the 
competent authority of the Member State of destination in which to submit the documents and information referred to 
in point (a) of paragraph 4 or in paragraph 5, or to submit any arguments or comments that the economic operator 
might have. 
7.
For the purposes of the assessment under paragraph 1 of this Article, the competent authority of the Member 
State of destination, in accordance with Article 10(3), may contact the competent authorities or the Product Contact 
Points of the Member State in which an economic operator claims to be lawfully marketing its goods, if the competent 
authority needs to verify any information provided by the economic operator. 
8.
In carrying out the assessment under paragraph 1, the competent authorities of Member States of destination shall 
take due account of the content of test reports or certificates issued by a conformity assessment body that have been 
provided by any economic operator as part of the assessment. The competent authorities of Member States of 
destination shall not refuse test reports or certificates that were issued by a conformity assessment body accredited for 
the appropriate field of conformity assessment activity in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 on grounds 
related to the competence of that body. 
9.
Where, on completion of an assessment under paragraph 1 of this Article, the competent authority of a Member 
State of destination takes an administrative decision with respect to the goods that it has assessed, it shall notify that 
administrative decision without delay to the economic operator referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The 
competent authority shall also notify that administrative decision to the Commission and to the other Member States no 
later than 20 working days after it took the decision. For that purpose, it shall use the system referred to in Article 11. 
10.
The administrative decision referred to in paragraph 9 shall set out the reasons for the decision in a manner that 
is sufficiently detailed and reasoned to facilitate an assessment of its compatibility with the principle of mutual 
recognition and with the requirements of this Regulation. 
11.
In particular, the following information shall be included in the administrative decision referred to in 
paragraph 9: 
(a)  the national technical rule on which the administrative decision is based; 
(b) the legitimate public interest grounds justifying the application of the national technical rule on which the adminis­
trative decision is based; 
(c)  the technical or scientific evidence that the competent authority of the Member State of destination considered, 
including, where applicable, any relevant changes in the state of the art that have occurred since the national 
technical rule came into force; 
(d)  a summary of the arguments put forward by the economic operator concerned that are relevant for the assessment 
under paragraph 1, if any; 
(e)  the evidence demonstrating that the administrative decision is appropriate for the purpose of achieving the objective 
pursued and that the administrative decision does not go beyond what is necessary in order to attain that objective. 
12.
The administrative decision referred to in paragraph 9 of this Article shall specify the remedies available under 
the national law of the Member State of destination and the time limits applicable to those remedies. It shall also include 
a reference to the possibility for economic operators to use SOLVIT and the procedure under Article 8. 
13.
The administrative decision referred to in paragraph 9 shall not take effect before it has been notified to the 
economic operator concerned under that paragraph. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Article 6 
Temporary suspension of market access 
1.
When the competent authority of a Member State is carrying out an assessment of goods pursuant to Article 5, it 
may temporarily suspend the making available of those goods on the market in that Member State only if: 
(a)  under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, the goods pose a serious risk to safety or health of 
persons or to the environment, including one where the effects are not immediate, which requires rapid intervention 
by the competent authority; or 
(b)  the making available of the goods, or of goods of that type, on the market in that Member State is generally 
prohibited in that Member State on grounds of public morality or public security. 
2.
The competent authority of the Member State shall immediately notify the economic operator concerned, the 
Commission and the other Member States of any temporary suspension pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. The 
notification to the Commission and the other Member States shall be made by means of the system referred to in 
Article 11. In cases falling within point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article, the notification shall be accompanied by 
a detailed technical or scientific justification demonstrating why the case falls within the scope of that point. 
Article 7 
Notification through RAPEX or RASFF 
If the administrative decision referred to in Article 5 or the temporary suspension referred to in Article 6 is also 
a measure which is to be notified through the Rapid Information Exchange System (RAPEX) in accordance with 
Directive 2001/95/EC or through the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF) in accordance with Regulation (EC) 
No 178/2002, a separate notification to the Commission and the other Member States under this Regulation shall not 
be required, provided that the following conditions are met: 
(a)  the RAPEX or RASFF notification indicates that the notification of the measure also serves as a notification under 
this Regulation; and 
(b)  the supporting evidence required for the administrative decision under Article 5 or for the temporary suspension 
under Article 6 is included with the RAPEX or RASFF notification. 
Article 8 
Problem-solving procedure 
1.
Where an economic operator affected by an administrative decision has submitted it to SOLVIT and where, during 
the SOLVIT procedure, the Home Centre or the Lead Centre requests the Commission to give an opinion in order to 
assist in solving the case, the Home Centre and the Lead Centre shall provide the Commission with all relevant 
documents relating to the administrative decision concerned. 
2.
After receiving the request referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission shall assess whether the administrative 
decision is compatible with the principle of mutual recognition and with the requirements of this Regulation. 
3.
For the purposes of the assessment referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall consider the 
administrative decision notified in accordance with Article 5(9) and the documents and information provided within the 
SOLVIT procedure. Where additional information or documents are needed for the purposes of the assessment referred 
to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission shall, without undue delay, request the relevant SOLVIT Centre to 
enter into communication with the economic operator concerned or with the competent authorities which took the 
administrative decision, for the purpose of obtaining such additional information or documents. 
4.
Within 45 working days of receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission shall complete its 
assessment and issue an opinion. Where appropriate, the Commission's opinion shall identify any concerns that should 
be addressed in the SOLVIT case or shall make recommendations to assist in solving the case. The 45 working day 
period does not include the time necessary for the Commission to receive the additional information and documents as 
provided for in paragraph 3. 
5.
Where the Commission has been informed that the case is solved during the assessment referred to in paragraph 
2, the Commission shall not be required to issue an opinion. 
6.
The Commission's opinion shall be communicated through the relevant SOLVIT Centre to the economic operator 
concerned and to the relevant competent authorities. That opinion shall be notified by the Commission to all Member 
States by means of the system referred to in Article 11. The opinion shall be taken into account during the SOLVIT 
procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/13 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
CHAPTER III 
ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION, MONITORING AND COMMUNICATION 
Article 9 
Tasks of the Product Contact Points 
1.
Member States shall designate and maintain Product Contact Points on their territory and shall ensure that their 
Product Contact Points have sufficient powers and adequate resources for the proper performance of their tasks. They 
shall ensure that Product Contact Points deliver their services in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1724. 
2.
Product Contact Points shall provide the following information online: 
(a)  information on the principle of mutual recognition and the application of this Regulation in the territory of their 
Member State, including information on the procedure set out in Article 5; 
(b)  the contact details, by means of which the competent authorities within that Member State may be contacted 
directly, including the particulars of the authorities responsible for supervising the implementation of the national 
technical rules applicable in the territory of their Member State; 
(c)  the remedies and procedures available in the territory of their Member State in the event of a dispute between the 
competent authority and an economic operator, including the procedure set out in Article 8. 
3.
Where necessary to complement the information provided online under paragraph 2, Product Contact Points shall 
provide, at the request of an economic operator or a competent authority of another Member State, any useful 
information, such as electronic copies of, or online access to, the national technical rules and national administrative 
procedures applicable to specific goods or goods of a specific type in the territory in which the Product Contact Point is 
established or information on whether those goods or goods of that type are subject to prior authorisation under 
national law. 
4.
Product Contact Points shall respond within 15 working days of receiving any request under paragraph 3. 
5.
Product Contact Points shall not charge any fee for the provision of the information under paragraph 3. 
Article 10 
Administrative cooperation 
1.
The Commission shall provide for and ensure efficient cooperation among the competent authorities and the 
Product Contact Points of the various Member States through the following activities: 
(a)  facilitating and coordinating the exchange and collection of information and best practices with regard to the 
application of the principle of mutual recognition; 
(b)  supporting the functioning of the Product Contact Points and enhancing their cross-border cooperation; 
(c)  facilitating and coordinating the exchange of officials among Member States and the organisation of common 
training and awareness raising programmes for authorities and businesses. 
2.
Member States shall ensure that their competent authorities and Product Contact Points participate in the activities 
referred to in paragraph 1. 
3.
Upon a request by a competent authority of the Member State of destination pursuant to Article 5(7), the 
competent authorities in the Member State in which an economic operator claims to be lawfully marketing its goods 
shall provide the competent authority of the Member State of destination within 15 working days with any information 
relevant for verifying data and documents supplied by the economic operator during the assessment under Article 5 
relating to those goods. The Product Contact Points may be used to facilitate contacts between the relevant competent 
authorities in accordance with the time limit for providing the requested information set out in Article 9(4). 
Article 11 
Information and communication system 
1.
For the purposes of Articles 5, 6 and 10 of this Regulation, the information and communication system set out in 
Article 23 of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 shall be used, except as provided in Article 7 of this Regulation. 
2.
The Commission shall adopt implementing acts specifying the details and functionalities of the system referred to 
in paragraph 1 of this Article for the purposes of this Regulation. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15(2). 
29.3.2019 
L 91/14 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
CHAPTER IV 
FINANCING 
Article 12 
Financing of activities in support of this Regulation 
1.
The Union may finance the following activities in support of this Regulation: 
(a)  awareness-raising campaigns; 
(b)  education and training; 
(c)  exchange of officials and of best practices; 
(d)  cooperation among Product Contact Points and competent authorities, and the technical and logistic support for this 
cooperation; 
(e)  the collection of data related to the functioning of the principle of mutual recognition and its impact on the Single 
Market for goods. 
2.
The Union's financial assistance with respect to activities in support of this Regulation shall be implemented in 
accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council (18), either directly 
or by entrusting budget implementation tasks to the entities listed in point (c) of Article 62(1) of that Regulation. 
3.
The appropriations allocated to activities referred to in this Regulation shall be determined each year by the 
budgetary authority within the limits of the financial framework in force. 
Article 13 
Protection of the financial interests of the Union 
1.
The Commission shall take appropriate measures to ensure that, when activities financed under this Regulation are 
implemented, the financial interests of the Union are protected by the application of preventive measures against fraud, 
corruption and any other illegal activities, by effective checks and, if irregularities are detected, by the recovery of the 
amounts wrongly paid and, where appropriate, by effective, proportionate and dissuasive administrative and financial 
penalties. 
2.
The Commission or its representatives and the Court of Auditors shall have the power of audit, on the basis of 
documents and of on-the-spot inspections, over all grant beneficiaries, contractors and subcontractors who have 
received Union funds under this Regulation. 
3.
The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may carry out investigations, including on-the-spot checks and 
inspections, in accordance with the provisions and procedures laid down in Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council (19) and Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 (20) with a view to 
establishing whether there has been fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the 
Union in connection with a grant agreement or grant decision or a contract funded under this Regulation. 
4.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, cooperation agreements with third countries and with international 
organisations, contracts, grant agreements and grant decisions, resulting from the implementation of this Regulation 
shall contain provisions expressly empowering the Commission, the Court of Auditors and OLAF to conduct such audits 
and investigations, in accordance with their respective competences. 
29.3.2019 
L 91/15 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(18) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable to 
the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) 
No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision No 541/2014/EU and 
repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1). 
(19) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 September 2013 concerning investi­
gations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council and Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 (OJ L 248, 18.9.2013, p. 1). 
(20) Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the 
Commission in order to protect the European Communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities (OJ L 292, 
15.11.1996, p. 2.). 
CHAPTER V 
EVALUATION AND COMMITTEE PROCEDURE 
Article 14 
Evaluation 
1.
By 20 April 2025, and every four years thereafter, the Commission shall carry out an evaluation of this Regulation 
in light of the objectives that it pursues and shall submit a report thereon to the European Parliament, to the Council 
and to the European Economic and Social Committee. 
2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission shall use the information available in the system 
referred to in Article 11 and any data collected in the course of activities referred to in point (e) of Article 12(1). The 
Commission may also ask Member States to submit any relevant information for evaluating the free movement of goods 
lawfully marketed in another Member State or for evaluating the effectiveness of this Regulation, as well as an 
assessment of the functioning of the Product Contact Points. 
Article 15 
Committee procedure 
1.
The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. That committee shall be a committee within the meaning of 
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 
2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 
CHAPTER VI 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
Article 16 
Repeal 
Regulation (EC) No 764/2008 is repealed with effect from 19 April 2020. 
References to the repealed Regulation shall be construed as references to this Regulation. 
Article 17 
Entry into force and application 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
It shall apply from 19 April 2020. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 19 March 2019. 
For the European Parliament 
The President 
A. TAJANI  
For the Council 
The President 
G. CIAMBA   
29.3.2019 
L 91/16 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
ANNEX 
Mutual recognition declaration for the purposes of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2019/515 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council (1) 
Part I 
1.  
Unique identifier for the goods or type of goods: … [Note: insert the goods identification number or other 
reference marker that uniquely identifies the goods or type of goods] 
2.  
Name and address of the economic operator: … [Note: insert the name and address of the signatory of Part I of the 
mutual recognition declaration: the producer and, where applicable, its authorised representative, or the importer, 
or the distributor] 
3.  
Description of the goods or type of goods subject of the mutual recognition declaration: … [Note: the description 
should be sufficient to enable the goods to be identified for traceability reasons. It may be accompanied by 
a photograph, where appropriate] 
4.  
Declaration and information on the lawfulness of the marketing of the goods or that type of goods  
4.1. The goods or type of goods described above, including their characteristics, comply with the following rules 
applicable in … [Note: identify the Member State in which the goods or that type of goods are claimed to be 
lawfully marketed]: … [Note: insert the title and official publication reference, in each case, of the relevant 
rules applicable in that Member State and reference of the authorisation decision if the goods were subject to 
a prior authorisation procedure], 
or 
the goods or type of goods described above are not subject to any relevant rules in … [Note: identify the 
Member State in which the goods or that type of goods are claimed to be lawfully marketed].  
4.2. Reference of the conformity assessment procedure applicable to the goods or that type of goods, or reference 
of test reports for any tests performed by a conformity assessment body, including the name and address of 
that body (if such procedure was carried out or if such tests were performed): … 
5.  
Any additional information considered relevant to an assessment of whether the goods or that type of goods are 
lawfully marketed in the Member State indicated in point 4.1: … 
6.  
This part of the mutual recognition declaration has been drawn up under the sole responsibility of the economic 
operator identified under point 2. 
Signed for and on behalf of: 
(place and date): 
(name, function) (signature): 
Part II 
7.  
Declaration and information on the marketing of the goods or that type of goods  
7.1. The goods or that type of goods described in Part I are made available to end users on the market in the 
Member State indicated in point 4.1.  
7.2. Information that the goods or that type of goods are made available to the end users in the Member State 
indicated in point 4.1, including details of the date of when the goods were first made available to end users 
on the market in that Member State: … 
8.  
Any additional information considered relevant to an assessment of whether the goods or that type of goods are 
lawfully marketed in the Member State indicated in point 4.1: … 
29.3.2019 
L 91/17 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Regulation (EU) 2019/515 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 on the mutual recognition of goods 
lawfully marketed in another Member State and repealing Regulation (EC) No 764/2008 (OJ L 91, 29.3.2019, p. 1). 
9.  
This part of the mutual recognition declaration has been drawn up under the sole responsibility of … [Note: insert 
the name and address of the signatory of Part II of the mutual recognition declaration: the producer and, where 
applicable, its authorised representative, or the importer, or the distributor] 
Signed for and on behalf of: 
(place and date): 
(name, function) (signature):  
29.3.2019 
L 91/18 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
