COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2022/1345 
of 1 August 2022
laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council with regard to registration and approval of establishments keeping terrestrial animals 
and collecting, producing, processing or storing germinal products 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on 
transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the area of animal health (‘Animal Health 
Law’) (1), and in particular Article 86(1) and (2) and Article 96(3) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)
Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down rules for animal diseases that are transmissible to animals or humans, 
including rules on the registration and approval by the competent authority of establishments keeping terrestrial 
animals and collecting, producing, processing or storing germinal products.
(2)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035 (2) supplements Regulation (EU) 2016/429 by laying down 
detailed rules concerning the registers to be kept by the competent authority of registered and approved 
establishments keeping terrestrial animals and collecting, producing, processing or storing germinal products 
registered with it or approved by it.
(3)
More particularly, Article 18, point (d), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035 provides that the competent 
authority is to include in its register of establishments of kept terrestrial animals and of hatcheries registered with it 
the address and geographical coordinates (latitude and longitude) of the location of the establishment. Furthermore, 
Article 18, point (h), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035 provides that the competent authority is to include in 
that register information about the period during which animals or hatching eggs are kept on the establishment if it 
is not continuously occupied, including seasonal occupation or occupation during particular events. While Article 
84(1), point (b), of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that operators of establishments keeping terrestrial animals 
or collecting, producing, processing or storing germinal products are to provide the competent authority with 
certain information in order for their establishments to be registered, that information does not include all the 
detailed information required under Article 18, points (d) and (h), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035. It is 
therefore appropriate to lay down a requirement for the operators of establishments of kept terrestrial animals and 
of hatcheries to provide such detailed information to the competent authority for the purpose of registration.
(4)
Similarly, Article 21, points (d) and (h), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035 also provide that the competent 
authority is to include in its register of establishments approved by it the same detailed information required by 
Article 18, points (d) and (h), of that Delegated Regulation. While Article 96(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 
requires operators to provide the competent authority with certain information for the purposes of their 
application for approval of their establishment, that information does not include all the detailed information 
required under Article 21, points (d) and (h), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035. It is therefore appropriate to 
lay down a requirement for the operators of establishments of kept terrestrial animals and of hatcheries to provide 
such detailed information to the competent authority for the purpose of approval.
(1) OJ L 84, 31.3.2016, p. 1.
(2) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/2035 of 28 June 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council as regards rules for establishments keeping terrestrial animals and hatcheries, and the traceability of 
certain kept terrestrial animals and hatching eggs (OJ L 314, 5.12.2019, p. 115).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
2.8.2022 
L 202/27  
(5)
In addition, Article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides that Member States may, by way of derogation from 
Article 84(1) of that Regulation, exempt from the registration requirement certain categories of establishments 
posing an insignificant risk to animal or public health. Such exemptions may only be granted if those categories of 
establishments are of a type falling under the rules laid down in an implementing act adopted in accordance with 
Article 86(2) of that Regulation. Rules concerning the types of establishments posing an insignificant risk that may 
be exempted by the Member States from the registration requirement in accordance with Article 85 should 
therefore be laid down.
(6)
Certain establishments, in particular those keeping ungulates cannot be considered as posing an insignificant risk, as 
referred to in Article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, due to a number of listed diseases that may be transmitted by 
ungulates and which may affect the animal health status of establishments or zones in that respect. Similarly, dogs, 
cats and ferrets kept on an establishment for breeding purposes cannot be considered as posing an insignificant 
risk, especially from a human health perspective.
(7)
The movement of animals, germinal products and products of animal origin constitutes an important risk factor for 
animal and human health. Establishments where movements take place, involving in particular movements to or 
from other Member States or third countries, should therefore not be considered as posing an insignificant risk. 
However, establishments where animals, germinal products or products of animal origin are kept with a certain 
continuity and the primary purpose is not the movement of those animals, germinal products or products of 
animal origin to or out of the establishment, can be considered as posing an insignificant risk, even if such 
movements could occur on an occasional basis.
(8)
Operators often keep terrestrial animals of several species on the same establishment. If a Member State exempts 
from the registration requirement certain categories of establishments posing an insignificant risk, as provided for 
in Article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, it is not proportionate to the risk involved to require operators to 
provide the information referred to in Article 84(1), point (b)(iii), regarding kept terrestrial animals for which the 
establishment could be exempted from the registration requirement in accordance with Article 3 of this Regulation 
as if those animals were the only animals kept on that establishment.
(9)
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on 
Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Subject matter and scope
This Regulation lays down rules concerning:
(a) the information to be provided by operators of establishments of kept terrestrial animals and of hatcheries for the 
purpose of the registration of their establishments, as provided for in Article 84(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
(b) the types of establishments keeping terrestrial animals posing an insignificant risk that may be exempted by the 
Member States from the registration requirement in accordance with Article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
(c) the information to be provided by operators of establishments of kept terrestrial animals and of hatcheries in their 
application for approval of their establishment in accordance with Article 96(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 202/28 
2.8.2022  
Article 2
Information to be provided by operators for the purpose of the registration of their establishment
1.
Operators of establishments of kept terrestrial animals and of hatcheries referred to in Article 84(1) of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/429 shall, in addition to the information referred to in Article 84(1), point (b), of that Regulation, before they 
commence such activities, provide the competent authority with the following information:
(a) the address and geographical coordinates (latitude and longitude) of the location of the establishment to be registered;
(b) the period during which the kept terrestrial animals or hatching eggs are kept on the registered establishment if it is not 
continuously occupied, including seasonal occupation or occupation during particular events.
2.
Operators of establishments of kept terrestrial animals referred to in Article 84(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 shall 
not be obliged to provide the competent authority with the information referred to in Article 84(1), point (b)(iii), of that 
Regulation, regarding kept terrestrial animals falling within the derogation used by the Member State in accordance with 
Article 3 of this Regulation.
Article 3
Types of establishments keeping terrestrial animals that may be exempted by the Member States from the 
registration requirement
1.
Member States may exempt from the registration requirement establishments keeping terrestrial animals posing an 
insignificant risk, as provided for in Article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, if the following criteria are fulfilled:
(a) no ungulates are kept on the establishment;
(b) no dogs, cats or ferrets are kept for breeding on the establishment;
(c) the establishment is not involved in any movement of kept terrestrial animals, germinal products or products of animal 
origin to or from another Member State or third country;
(d) the kept terrestrial animals, germinal products or products of animal origin on the establishment are not intended to be 
moved out of the establishment.
2.
Member States that exempt establishments in accordance with paragraph 1 may lay down additional criteria 
regarding limitations on the number of kept terrestrial animals that may be kept on such establishments and restrict the 
geographical location of those establishments, in particular in relation to their proximity to establishments registered or 
approved by the competent authority.
Article 4
Information to be provided by operators in their application for approval of their establishment
Operators of establishments of kept terrestrial animals and of hatcheries shall, for the purposes of their application for 
approval of their establishment as provided for in Article 94(1) and Article 95, point (a), of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, in 
addition to the information referred to in Article 96(1) of that Regulation, provide the competent authority with the 
following information:
(a) the address and geographical coordinates (latitude and longitude) of the location of the establishment to be approved;
(b) the period during which animals or hatching eggs are kept on the approved establishment if it is not continuously 
occupied, including seasonal occupation or occupation during particular events.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
2.8.2022 
L 202/29  
Article 5
Entry into force
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 1 August 2022.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 202/30 
2.8.2022  
