COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/508 
of 7 April 2020 
imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain hot rolled stainless steel sheets and 
coils originating in Indonesia, the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection 
against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1) (‘the basic Regulation’), and in particular 
Article 7 thereof, 
After consulting the Member States, 
Whereas: 
1. PROCEDURE 
1.1. Initiation 
(1) 
On 12 August 2019, the European Commission (‘the Commission’) initiated an anti-dumping investigation with 
regard to imports into the Union of certain hot rolled stainless steel sheets and coils (‘SSHR’ or ‘the product under 
investigation’) originating in Indonesia, the People’s Republic of China (‘PRC’) and Taiwan (‘the countries 
concerned’), on the basis of Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036. It published a Notice of Initiation in the 
Official Journal of the European Union (2) (‘Notice of Initiation’). 
(2) 
The Commission initiated the investigation following a complaint lodged on 28 June 2019 by the European Steel 
Association (‘Eurofer’ or ‘the complainant’) on behalf of four Union producers representing the entirety of Union 
production of the product under investigation. The complaint contained evidence of dumping from the countries 
concerned and resulting material injury that was sufficient to justify the initiation of the investigation. 
(3) 
The Commission made imports of the product concerned subject to registration under Article 14(5) of the basic 
Regulation by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/104 (3). 
1.2. Interested parties 
(4) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission invited interested parties to contact it in order to participate in the 
investigation. In addition, the Commission specifically informed the complainant, known exporting producers in 
the countries concerned and the authorities of the countries concerned, known importers and users in the Union 
about the initiation of the investigation, and invited them to participate. 
(5) 
Interested parties had the opportunity to comment on the initiation of the investigation and to request a hearing 
with the Commission and/or the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings. The Commission received comments that 
are addressed in Sections 2.3 and 5.2.3. 
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21. 
(2) Notice of Initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain hot rolled stainless steel sheets and coils originating 
in the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Indonesia (OJ C 269 I, 12.8.2019. p. 1). 
(3) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/104 of 23 January 2020 making imports of certain hot rolled stainless steel sheets 
and coils originating in the People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Indonesia subject to registration (OJ L 19, 24.1.2020, p. 5). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 110/3   

1.3. Sampling 
(6) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it might sample the interested parties in accordance with 
Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
1.3.1. Sampling of Union producers 
(7) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it had decided to limit to a reasonable number the Union 
producers that would be investigated by applying sampling, and that it had provisionally selected a sample of Union 
producers. The Commission selected the provisional sample on the basis of production and Union sales volumes 
reported by the Union producers in the context of the pre-initiation standing assessment analysis, taking also into 
account their geographical location. The provisional sample thus established consisted of three Union producers 
accounting for over 78 % of production and 88 % of sales in the Union of the like product, and located in three 
different Member States. Details of this provisional sample were made available in the file for inspection by 
interested parties, with the possibility for them to make comments. No comments were made. 
(8) 
As a result of the above, the provisional sample of Union producers was confirmed. It consisted of Aperam Belgium 
(‘Aperam’), Acciai Speciali Terni S.p.A. (‘AST’) and OTK Stainless Oy (‘OTK’). The definitive sample is representative 
of the Union industry. 
1.3.2. Sampling of importers 
(9) 
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked all known unrelated 
importers to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. 
(10) 
Two unrelated importers made themselves known as interested parties and provided the requested information. In 
view of the low number of replies received, sampling was not necessary. Both importers were invited to complete a 
questionnaire. 
1.3.3. Sampling of exporting producers in the countries concerned 
(11) 
Taking into account the number of known producers of the product concerned in the countries concerned, the 
Notice of Initiation provided only for sampling in the PRC and therefore, the Commission asked all Chinese 
exporting producers to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation to decide whether sampling was 
necessary and, if so, to select a sample. 
(12) 
In addition, the Commission asked the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia in Brussels, the Mission of the People’s 
Republic of China to the European Union and the Taipei Representative Office in the European Union to identify 
and/or contact other exporting producers, if any, that could be interested in participating in the investigation. 
1.3.3.1. Indonesia 
(13) 
There were only two exporting producers in Indonesia known to the Commission at the initiation of the 
investigation. Therefore, the Commission did not intend to select a sample. No further exporting producers came 
forward. Consequently, the Commission carried out the investigation on the two exporting producers in Indonesia. 
1.3.3.2. The People’s Republic of China 
(14) 
Five exporting producers in the PRC provided the information requested in the Notice of Initiation and agreed to be 
included in the sample. In accordance with Article 17(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission selected a sample 
of three companies, which could reasonably be investigated within the time available. The basis for the selection of 
the sample were the largest volumes of exports to the Union. 
(15) 
In accordance with Article 17(2) of the basic Regulation, all known exporting producers concerned, and the 
authorities of the PRC, were consulted on the selection of the sample. No comments were made. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/4                                                                                                                                             
8.4.2020   

(16) 
Following the verification visits, given the shortcomings of the information provided by one sampled Chinese 
exporting producer, the Commission decided to disregard the information given by this producer on the basis of 
Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation (4). 
(17) 
As a result of the above, the sample of the Chinese exporting producers was reduced to two companies, covering 
around 92 % of Chinese exports of the product concerned to the Union in the investigation period, which was still 
considered a high level of cooperation. 
1.3.3.3. Taiwan 
(18) 
In the Notice of Initiation, sampling was not foreseen for Taiwan as there was only one exporting producer known to 
the Commission. However, shortly before the initiation, the Commission was informed by the Taipei Representative 
Office in the European Union that there might be a total of 12 additional exporting producers of the product 
concerned in Taiwan. Therefore, upon initiation, the Commission asked the 13 parties to reply to sampling 
questions and, subsequently, to reply to a couple of other questions destined to clarify their role and exact activities. 
On that basis, the Commission could eventually identify two exporting producers of the product concerned in 
Taiwan. Therefore, sampling was not necessary. 
(19) 
The two exporting producers represented around 56 % of the total volume of exports from Taiwan to the Union. The 
replies of 7 of the Taiwanese parties contacted by the Commission upon initiation revealed that these companies 
were in fact independent service centres and/or traders and that most if not all of the remaining Taiwanese exports 
to the Union were eventually made by these parties. These service centres did not have any hot-rolling or cold- 
rolling facilities and therefore did not qualify as a producer of the product concerned. In addition, their added value 
was minor in relation to the cost of their inputs. However, in view of the replies received from them on the questions 
referred to in recital (18) above, the Commission followed up by providing these parties with a concise questionnaire 
in order to obtain a sound understanding of the functioning of the Taiwanese domestic and export sales of the 
product under investigation. 
1.4. Individual examination 
(20) 
Originally, four Chinese exporting producers that returned the sampling form requested individual examination 
under Article 17(3) of the basic Regulation. The Commission made the questionnaire available online on the day of 
the initiation (5). Moreover, when announcing the sample, the Commission informed the exporting producers that 
were not sampled that they were required to provide a questionnaire reply if they wished to be examined 
individually. However, none of the companies provided a questionnaire reply. Therefore, no individual examination 
was granted. 
1.5. Questionnaire replies and verification visits 
(21) 
The Commission sent a questionnaire concerning the existence of significant distortions in the PRC within the 
meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation to the Government of the People’s Republic of China (‘GOC’). 
(22) 
Furthermore, the complainant provided in the complaint sufficient prima facie evidence of raw material distortions in 
Indonesia and the PRC regarding the product concerned. Therefore, as announced in the Notice of Initiation, the 
investigation covered those raw material distortions to determine whether to apply the provisions of Article 7(2a) 
and 7(2b) of the basic Regulation with regard to Indonesia and the PRC. For this reason, the Commission sent 
additional questionnaires in this regard to the Government of Indonesia (‘GOI’) and the GOC. 
(23) 
The Commission sent questionnaires to the three sampled Union producers, the complainant, the two unrelated 
importers and two users that had made themselves known, the nine exporting producers in the countries 
concerned and all other economic operators that made themselves known and requested a questionnaire. The same 
questionnaires had also been made available online (6) on the day of initiation. 
(4) See section 3.2 of the Regulation. 
(5) Available at https://trade.ec.europa.eu/tdi/case_details.cfm?id=2411 
(6) Available at https://trade.ec.europa.eu/tdi/case_details.cfm?id=2411 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 110/5   

(24) 
Questionnaire replies were received from the three sampled Union producers, two unrelated importers, two users, 
the two known exporting producers from Indonesia, the three sampled exporting producers from the PRC, the two 
exporting producers in Taiwan and an unrelated service centre in Taiwan. A questionnaire reply was also received 
from the GOI. No reply was received from the GOC for any of the two questionnaires sent. 
(25) 
The Commission sought and verified all the information deemed necessary for a provisional determination of 
dumping, resulting injury and Union interest. Verification visits pursuant to Article 16 of the basic Regulation were 
carried out at the premises of the following parties: 
(a) Union producers and their association 
— Acciai Speciali Terni S.p.A., Terni, Italy (‘AST’) 
— Aperam Stainless Belgium, Châtelet and Genk, Belgium (‘Aperam’) 
— Outokumpu Stainless Oy, Tornio, Finland (‘OTK’) 
— Eurofer, Brussels, Belgium. 
(b) Users in the Union 
— Marcegaglia Specialties S.p.A., Mantova, Italy (‘Marcegaglia’). 
(c) Exporting producers 
Exporting producers in Indonesia: 
— PT Indonesia Tsingshan Stainless Steel, Jakarta (‘ITSS’) 
— PT Indonesia Guang Ching Nickel and Stainless Steel Industry, Jakarta (‘GCNS’). 
Exporting producers in the PRC: 
— Shanxi Taigang Stainless Steel Co., Ltd., Taiyuan (‘STSS’), its related exporter in the third country – Tisco 
Stainless Steel (H.K.) Ltd., HongKong (‘Tisco HK’), and five related companies located in the PRC: Beijing 
Taigang Sales Co., Shanxi Taigang Bonded & Conprehensive, Taiyuan Iron & Steel (Group) Fly Ash 
Comprehensive Utilization Co. Ltd., Taiyuan Taigang Daming Metal Products Ltd., and Tianjin Tisco and 
TPCO Stainless Steel 
— Fujian Fuxin Special Steel Co., Ltd., Ximen (‘FSS’) 
— Zhenxhi Group Eastern Special Steel Co., Ltd., Jiaxing (‘Zhenshi’). 
Exporting producers in Taiwan: 
— Yieh United Steel Co. (‘Yusco’); its related producer Tang Eng Iron Works Co. Ltd. (‘Tang Eng’); its related 
service centre Yieh Mau Co. (‘YMC’); and its related trader Yieh Co. Ltd. (‘YCL’), Kaohsiung (together referred 
to as ‘Yusco Group’) 
— Walsin Lihwa Co., Tainan (‘Walsin’). 
Independent service centre in Taiwan: 
— YC INOX Ltd., Changhua County (‘YC INOX’). 
(26) 
With regard to the procedure of Articles 7(2a) and 7(2b) of the basic Regulation, a consultation with the GOI took 
place. 
1.6. Investigation period and period considered 
(27) 
The investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (‘the investigation 
period’). The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of injury covered the period from 1 January 2016 to 
the end of the investigation period (‘the period considered’). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/6                                                                                                                                             
8.4.2020   

1.7. Procedure for the determination of the normal value under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation 
(28) 
In view of the sufficient evidence available at the initiation of the investigation pointing to the existence of significant 
distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation with regard to the PRC, the 
Commission considered it appropriate to initiate the investigation with regard to the exporting producers from this 
country having regard to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(29) 
Consequently, in order to collect the necessary data for the eventual application of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation, in the Notice of Initiation the Commission invited all exporting producers in the PRC to provide the 
information requested in Annex III to the Notice of the Initiation regarding the inputs used for producing SSHR. 
Five Chinese exporting producers submitted the relevant information. 
(30) 
In order to obtain information it deemed necessary for its investigation with regard to the alleged significant 
distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission sent a 
questionnaire to the GOC as described in recital (21). No reply was received from the GOC. Subsequently, the 
Commission informed the GOC that it would use facts available within the meaning of Article 18 of the basic 
Regulation for the determination of the existence of the significant distortions in the PRC. 
(31) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission also invited all interested parties to make their views known, submit 
information and provide supporting evidence regarding the appropriateness of the application of Article 2(6a) of 
the basic Regulation within 37 days of the date of publication of this Notice in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. Two exporting producers made comments on the existence of significant distortions. 
(32) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission also specified that, in view of the evidence available, it may need to select 
an appropriate representative country pursuant to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation for the purpose of 
determining the normal value based on undistorted prices or benchmarks. 
(33) 
On 9 September 2019, the Commission published a first note for the file (‘the Note of 9 September’) seeking the 
views of the interested parties on the relevant sources that the Commission may use for the determination of the 
normal value, in accordance with Article 2(6a)(e) second paragraph of the basic Regulation. In that note, the 
Commission provided a list of all factors of production such as materials, energy and labour used in the production 
of the product concerned by the exporting producers. In addition, based on the criteria guiding the choice of 
undistorted prices or benchmarks, the Commission identified possible representative countries (namely Brazil, 
Malaysia, South Africa and Turkey). 
(34) 
The Commission gave all interested parties the opportunity to comment. The Commission received comments from 
two Chinese exporting producers and the complainant. The GOC did not provide any comments. 
(35) 
The Commission addressed the comments received in the second note on the sources for the determination of the 
normal value of 10 October 2019 (‘the Note of 10 October’). The Commission also established a provisional list of 
factors of production and concluded that, at that stage, Brazil was the most appropriate representative country 
under Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic Regulation. The Commission invited interested parties to comment 
and no comments were received. 
2. PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT 
2.1. Product concerned 
(36) 
The product concerned by this investigation is flat-rolled products of stainless steel, whether or not in coils 
(including products cut-to-length and narrow strip), not further worked than hot-rolled and excluding products, not 
in coils, of a width of 600 mm or more and of a thickness exceeding 10 mm, currently falling under HS codes 
7219 11, 7219 12, 7219 13, 7219 14, 7219 22, 7219 23, 7219 24, 7220 11 and 7220 12 and originating in the 
People’s Republic of China, Taiwan and Indonesia. The HS codes are given for information only. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 110/7   

2.2. Like product 
(37) 
The investigation showed that the following products have the same basic physical, chemical and technical 
characteristics as well as the same basic uses: 
— the product concerned; 
— the product produced and sold on the domestic markets of the countries concerned; 
— the product produced and sold on the domestic market of Brazil, which served as representative country in the 
meaning of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation; and 
— the product produced and sold in the Union by the Union industry. 
(38) 
The Commission decided at this stage that those products are therefore like products within the meaning of Article 1 
(4) of the basic Regulation. 
2.3. Claims regarding product scope 
(39) 
Marcegaglia and the two exporting producers in Indonesia claimed that black coils should be excluded from the 
scope of the investigation. They claimed the present investigation covers two different types of stainless steel coils, 
namely white and black coils, and that although both black and white coils are classified under the same HS codes 
(as defined in the Notice of Initiation), their properties and intended uses differ. With regard to physical and 
chemical properties, Marcegaglia, inter alia, argued that black coils are, in terms of corrosion resistance, not even 
stainless steel products. According to Marcegaglia they are semi-finished products, neither annealed nor pickled. 
(40) 
Moreover, according to Marcegaglia, black SSHR are made by hot rolling of slabs and they are mainly, if not 
exclusively, supplied to re-rollers. Marcegaglia argued that black SSHR can in fact only be used for further 
processing (re-rolling) into pickled coils or stainless steel cold-rolled coils and that there are only two re-rollers in 
the Union, namely Marcegaglia and another much smaller party. It claimed that black SSHR, as product category, is 
more similar to stainless steel slabs than to white SSHR due to its intrinsic nature of semi-finished product. 
(41) 
Further according to Marcegaglia, white SSHR are a stainless steel finished product made by annealing and pickling 
of black SSHR. The latter are therefore the indispensable raw material to manufacture white SSHR to the same 
extent as slabs are the indispensable raw material to manufacture black SSHR. As such, white SSHR can be used 
without further processing by end-users for direct industrial application (e.g. automotive, machinery and 
petrochemical industries). It is supplied to plate cutting companies, tube manufacturers and cold rolling companies 
for further processing. 
(42) 
Finally, the parties concerned claimed that the Union industry is not interested in supplying the market with black 
coils as they rather use themselves the black coils they produce for further conversion into white coils and further 
downstream products. Therefore, according to them, the security of supply of black coils is at stake if they wouldbe 
included in the scope of measures, if any. 
(43) 
Eurofer opposed the claims referred to in recitals (39) to (42). It, inter alia, insisted that black and white coils are both 
flat stainless steel products with the same physical characteristics and chemical composition for the same grades, 
manufactured from the same raw materials (essentially chromium, stainless steel scrap and nickel) and that the 
added value for processing black coils into white coils is limited and represents less than 8 % of the production cost 
of a white coil. Eurofer also referred to an overall unused capacity of more than 2 million tonnes among Union 
producers and indicated that the Union industry can and is willing to satisfy the entire demand of SSHR on the 
Union market, regardless of the product type needed. Moreover, it submitted that several Union producers notified 
on their websites that they are capable and willing to deliver black coils. Consequently, it argued that the security of 
supply of black coils is not at risk but pointed at the risk of circumvention if black coils would be excluded. 
(44) 
The Commission analysed the claims. On the product characteristics, the investigation found that black coils and 
white coils have the same chemical composition. In particular, black coils are manufactured from the same basic 
material and thus have the same characteristics as white coils depending on the steel grade. It follows that black 
coils fall under the same Combined Nomenclature headings as the white coils covered by the proceeding, starting 
with 7219 or 7220. These headings both fall under the Section ‘stainless steel’ in Chapter 72 (Iron and Steel) of the 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/8                                                                                                                                             
8.4.2020   

Combined Nomenclature. Black and white coils also have the same physical properties as they have similar 
dimensions. Black and white coils are interchangeable for re-rollers with annealing and pickling facilities, which 
indeed means that there is a risk of circumvention if black coils would be excluded from the scope of the product 
concerned. 
(45) 
On the alleged lack of interest of the Union industry to sell black coils, this claim was not substantiated by any 
evidence. On the contrary, the investigation showed that the Union industry has a significant spare capacity, which 
is equally available for black and white coils, and that, in spite of the difficult market circumstances, it sold in the 
investigation period very significant volumes of black coils on the Union market, including (but not exclusively) to 
Marcegaglia. That shows it has a genuine interest in serving the market. 
(46) 
On that basis, it is provisionally concluded that black and white coils share the same basic physical and chemical 
characteristics and that they form one product group. The claims referred to in recitals (39) to (42) are therefore 
rejected. 
(47) 
Several parties claimed that SSHR of a width of 1 600 mm and more, including SSHR of a width of 2 000 mm, 
should be excluded from the scope of the investigation because introducing anti-dumping measures on this special 
material would further reduce the purchase possibility of a material which is already very hard to procure. It would 
also limit their competitiveness against non-Union producers of large diameter welded tubes. 
(48) 
This claim is rejected. SSHR of a width of 1 600 mm or more have the same basic chemical characteristics as smaller 
SSHR. They also share the same basic physical characteristics except for the width. SSHR of larger width could easily 
be transformed into smaller SSHR by simple cutting operations. There is therefore a risk of circumvention if larger 
coils would be excluded from the scope of the product concerned. 
(49) 
The Consortium for imports of SST HRF (7) claimed that coils with a thickness above 10 mm should be excluded, as 
there are only two plants in the Union able to produce SSHR with a thickness above 13 mm. The Commission sees 
no valid reasons to exclude these coils, which beyond any doubt share the same basic physical and chemical 
characteristics and uses as all other product types under the product scope. Moreover and as indicated by the 
Consortium itself, the Union industry has the capacity to supply them. The claim is therefore rejected. 
3. DUMPING 
3.1. Indonesia 
3.1.1. Exporting producers 
(50) 
During the investigation period, there were two exporting producers in Indonesia, the companies ITSS and GCNS. 
The companies were related to each other via their ultimate parent, the Chinese steel producer Tsingshan Steel 
Group. 
(51) 
Together with the Indonesian company PT Bintang Delapan, Tsingshan Steel Group established the Indonesia 
Morowali Industrial Park (‘IMIP’) in Sulawesi, Indonesia (8). The following companies related via Tsingshan Steel 
Group and located in IMIP were involved in the investigation: 
— GCNS is an integrated exporting producer of the product under investigation processing nickel ore into black 
SSHR; 
— ITSS is an integrated exporting producer processing nickel ore into stainless steel slab; 
— PT Sulawesi Mining Investment (‘SMI’) is a smelter processing the nickel ore into ferronickel and further to 
stainless steel slabs; 
(7) This consortium is a group of 20 distributors and users, representing altogether approximately 500 000 tonnes of Union consumption 
and collectively employing ca. 30 000 people in the Union. 
(8) Unless otherwise provided, the information on IMIP was sourced from: IMIP. 2017 Annual Report, available at: https://static1. 
squarespace.com/static/584e20fe197aea0e29105534/t/5c986900eb393132e86a5f1a/1553492333714/IMIP+2017+Annual 
+Report.pdf (last viewed 3 March 2020). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                            
L 110/9   

— PT Indonesia Ruipu Nickel and Chrome Alloy (‘IRNC’) is a producer of ferrochrome and downstream products of 
the product under investigation being able to further process white SSHR by cold-rolling; 
— PT Tsingshan Steel Indonesia (‘TSI’) is a producer of nickel pig iron (produced from nickel ore with a low nickel 
content). 
3.1.2. Application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation 
(52) 
Both exporting producers failed to provide a meaningful worldwide structure of the group in their questionnaire 
replies and during the verification visits. Furthermore, the related traders involved in export sales did not provide 
any questionnaire reply. 
(53) 
Therefore, the Commission was not able to verify the relationship between the exporting producers and their 
suppliers of nickel ore, which is considered a crucial raw material giving the product under investigation its stainless 
characteristics. In particular, the Commission was not able to establish whether the allegedly unrelated suppliers 
were indeed independent from the exporting producers. 
(54) 
Consequently, the Commission was not able to assess whether the nickel ore supplied by positively identified related 
parties was purchased at an arm’s length price. 
(55) 
Moreover, the Commission was not able to verify the relationship with the allegedly unrelated customer of a related 
domestic trader. Thus, the Commission disregarded the sales between the related trader and the allegedly unrelated 
customer when determining the normal value. 
(56) 
Finally, due to the non-cooperation of the related traders involved in export sales, the Commission was not able to 
determine the export price to the first unrelated customer and the actual costs incurred by those related traders. 
Thus, the Commission was not able to calculate the export price based on the data provided by the exporting 
producers producers although all information provided by GCNS and ITSS could be verified against the companies’ 
records. 
(57) 
By a letter of 20 December 2019, the Commission informed GCNS and ITSS of its intention to apply Article 18 of 
the basic Regulation with regard to certain aspects of the dumping margin calculation. In this respect, the exporting 
producers submitted comments on 7 January 2020. 
(58) 
In their comments on the application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the exporting producers submitted that 
the basic Regulation does not allow the Commission to conclude that the information provided by the exporting 
producers concerning the purchases of nickel ore are not reliable solely on the grounds that the relationship 
between the exporting producers and their suppliers could not be established. GCNS and ITSS referred to World 
Trade Organisation (‘WTO’) jurisprudence (9) and the WTO Customs Valuation Agreement (10), from which 
followed that transactions between related parties cannot be considered a priori unacceptable or not at arm’s length. 
Finally, the exporting producers recalled that the Commission verified the purchases of nickel ore during the 
verification visit. 
(59) 
In this respect, the Commission confirmed that indeed the information provided by the companies in the group 
(GCNS, ITSS, SMI, and TSI) on the identity of the supplier, the volumes and values of the raw material purchases 
were verified. Nevertheless, and notwithstanding the WTO rules and jurisprudence on transactions between related 
parties, by not supplying the worldwide structure of the group, the exporting producers prevented the Commission 
from even examining whether the purchase transactions were carried out at arm’s length price. 
(60) 
Therefore, the Commission confirmed its intention to disregard the reported purchase price of nickel ore and replace 
it with facts available under Article 18 of the basic Regulation. 
(9) WTO Panel Report, United States – Anti-dumping measures on Certain Oil Country Tubular Goods from Korea (WT/DS488/15), para. 
7.198. 
(10) Article 1.2(a) of Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/10                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(61) 
As for the calculation of the export price, the exporting producers reiterated their best efforts to secure the 
cooperation of the related traders involved in export sales. The exporting producers also suggested that the 
Commission use information available on the file as facts available. 
(62) 
In this respect, the Commission provisionally decided to use the data available on the file provided by interested 
parties in the Union, which cooperated with the investigation from its initiation and sent questionnaire replies. 
(63) 
As a conclusion, the Commission provisionally used facts available in order to establish or replace certain 
information in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation to the extent described above. 
3.1.3. Normal value 
(64) 
The Commission first examined whether the total volume of domestic sales for each cooperating exporting producer 
was representative, in accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales are representative if 
the total domestic sales volume of the like product to independent customers on the domestic market per exporting 
producer represented at least 5 % of its total export sales volume of the product concerned to the Union during the 
investigation period. 
(65) 
On this basis, the total sales by GCNS of the like product on the domestic market were found not to be 
representative. 
(66) 
Therefore, where a product type was not sold on the domestic market, the Commission constructed the normal 
value in accordance with Article 2(3) and (6) of the basic Regulation. 
(67) 
Normal value was constructed by adding the following to the average cost of production of the like product of GCNS 
during the investigation period: 
(a) the weighted average selling, general and administrative (‘SG&A’) expenses incurred by GCNS on domestic sales 
of the like product, in the ordinary course of trade, during the investigation period; and 
(b) the weighted average profit realised by GCNS on domestic sales of the like product, in the ordinary course of 
trade, during the investigation period. 
(68) 
The cost of nickel ore was adjusted as explained in recitals (79) to (82). 
(69) 
GCNS purchased certain services and inputs in the form of semi-finished products from the related suppliers located 
in IMIP. The Commission examined whether those purchases were carried out at an arm’s length price. In this 
respect, where available, the Commission compared the purchase price with the price of the related supplier to an 
unrelated customer. Where such price was not available, the Commission compared the purchase price with a 
constructed market price taking into account the costs of production, SG&A, and a reasonable profit of the related 
supplier. Where appropriate, the Commission adjusted the costs of those services and inputs incurred by GCNS in 
accordance with Article 2(5) of the basic Regulation. 
(70) 
On the basis of the representativity test explained in recital (64), the total sales by ITSS of the like product on the 
domestic market were representative. 
(71) 
The Commission subsequently identified the product types sold domestically that were identical or comparable with 
the product types sold for export to the Union for ITSS with representative domestic sales. 
(72) 
The Commission then examined whether the domestic sales by ITSS on its domestic market for each product type 
that is identical or comparable with a product type sold for export to the Union were representative, in accordance 
with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales of a product type are representative if the total volume 
of domestic sales of that product type to independent customers during the investigation period represents at least 5 
% of the total volume of export sales of the identical or comparable product type to the Union. The Commission 
established that the sales of one product type on the domestic market were representative. 
(73) 
The Commission next defined the proportion of profitable sales to independent customers on the domestic market 
for this product type during the investigation period in order to decide whether to use actual domestic sales for the 
calculation of the normal value, in accordance with Article 2(4) of the basic Regulation. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/11   

(74) 
The normal value is based on the actual domestic price per product type, irrespective of whether those sales are 
profitable or not, if: 
(a) the sales volume of the product type, sold at a net sales price equal to or above the calculated cost of production, 
represented more than 80 % of the total sales volume of this product type; and 
(b) the weighted average sales price of that product type is equal to or higher than the unit cost of production. 
(75) 
In this case, the normal value is the weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales of that product type during 
the investigation period. 
(76) 
The normal value is the actual domestic price per product type of only the profitable domestic sales of the product 
types during the investigation period, if: 
(a) the volume of profitable sales of the product type represents 80 % or less of the total sales volume of this type: or 
(b) the weighted average price of this product type is below the unit cost of production. 
(77) 
The analysis of domestic sales showed that 13,7 % of all domestic sales of the product type were profitable and that 
the weighted average sales price was higher than the cost of production. Accordingly, the normal value was 
calculated as a weighted average of the profitable sales only. 
(78) 
Where a product type was not sold in representative quantities on the domestic market, the Commission constructed 
the normal value in accordance with Article 2(3) and (6) of the basic Regulation. 
(79) 
Normal value was constructed by adding the following to the average cost of production of the like product of ITSS 
during the investigation period: 
(a) the weighted average SG&A expenses incurred by ITSS on domestic sales of the like product, in the ordinary 
course of trade, during the investigation period; and 
(b) the weighted average profit realised by ITSS on domestic sales of the like product, in the ordinary course of 
trade, during the investigation period. 
(80) 
The cost of nickel ore was adjusted as explained in recitals (79) to (82). 
(81) 
ITSS purchased certain services and inputs from the related suppliers located in IMIP. The Commission examined 
whether those purchases were carried out at an arm’s length price. In this respect, where available, the Commission 
compared the purchase price with the price of the related supplier to an unrelated customer. Where such price was 
not available, the Commission compared the purchase price with a constructed market price taking into account 
the costs of production, SG&A, and a reasonable profit of the related supplier. Where appropriate, the Commission 
adjusted the costs of those services and inputs incurred by ITSS in accordance with Article 2(5) of the basic 
Regulation. 
(82) 
As explained in recitals (52) to (54) and (57) to (60), the Commission disregarded the costs of nickel ore as reported 
by the two exporting producers and by their related suppliers of certain inputs mentioned in recitals (69) and (78). 
The Commission intended to use the market price of nickel ore in Indonesia as facts available and replace the actual 
costs of nickel ore with that price. 
(83) 
In this respect, in the framework of the consultations with the GOI on potential raw material distortions under 
Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission requested statistical information on domestic sales volumes 
and values, which the GOI normally collected under the applicable legislation (11). The GOI, however, only provided 
information on domestic sales volumes. Thus, this information was incomplete and could not be used to establish a 
domestic Indonesian market price of nickel ore. 
(84) 
As a consequence, the Commission used the actual price paid by the one exporting producer that provided 
information on the nickel content of the nickel ore for all its purchase transactions. The Commission considered 
that the nickel content, which influences the price of nickel ore, should be taken into account when replacing the 
costs of nickel ore reported by the companies in the group. The Commission identified the most expensive 
purchase transactions for each nickel content and considered that those transactions and prices were least likely to 
be affected by a relationship between the supplier and the buyer. The Commission established the adjusted costs of 
nickel ore based on the weighted average of the purchase price of the selected transactions taking into account the 
total volume purchased by the company within each nickel content group. 
(11) Article 11 of Regulation of the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources No 7/2017 concerning procedures for determining the 
benchmark prices for sales of metal minerals and coal. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/12                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(85) 
The adjusted costs of nickel ore were also used to recalculate the production costs of semi-finished inputs bought 
from the related suppliers mentioned in recitals (69) and (78), when examining whether the relevant inputs were 
purchased by the exporting producers at arm’s length price. Where it was evident that the suppliers used nickel ore 
with a lower nickel content, the adjusted costs reflected the difference. 
3.1.4. Export price 
(86) 
The exporting producers provided information that they exported to the Union through related traders in third 
countries and an unrelated trader in a third country. 
(87) 
As explained in recitals (52) and (56), the related traders involved in export sales did not cooperate with the 
investigation. Therefore, the export price was established in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation on 
the basis of the information available on file and verified by the Commission. To determine the export price, the 
Commission first established the import price into the Union based on the information on the file provided by the 
cooperating interested parties in the Union. The Commission further adjusted that price for all costs incurred 
between importation and resale, including transport, insurance, handling and loading, SG&A expenses, and for 
profits accruing, based on verified information provided by the exporting producers or publicly available 
information (e.g. publicly available audited financial statements of one of the claimed related traders). 
3.1.5. Comparison 
(88) 
The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the exporting producers on an ex-works basis. 
(89) 
Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation. Adjustments to the normal value were made for transport, insurance, handling and loading. 
Adjustments to the export price were made for credit costs and the commission of the unrelated trader in a third 
country. 
3.1.6. Dumping margins 
(90) 
The Commission compared the weighted average normal value of each type of the like product with the weighted 
average export price of the corresponding type of the product under investigation, in accordance with Article 2(11) 
and (12) of the basic Regulation. 
(91) 
On this basis, the provisional weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier 
price, duty unpaid, are 19,3 % for GCNS and 16,2 % for ITSS. 
(92) 
As explained in recitals (50) and (51), the exporting producers are related. Therefore, the Commission established a 
single weighted average dumping margin for both companies at the level of 19,2 %. 
(93) 
As the imports of the cooperating exporting producers constituted 100 % of the total exports to the Union during 
the investigation period, the Commission considered it representative to set the residual dumping margin at the 
level of the cooperating exporting producers. 
(94) 
The provisional dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty unpaid, are as 
follows:                                                              
Company 
Provisional dumping margin 
PT Indonesia Guang Ching Nickel and Stainless Steel Industry 
PT Indonesia Tsingshan Stainless Steel 
19,2 % 
All other companies 
19,2 %   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/13   

3.2. The PRC 
3.2.1. Preliminary remarks 
(95) 
As explained in the recital (16) with regard to one of the three sampled Chinese exporting producers the 
Commission decided to make use of the provisions of Article 18 of the basic Regulation and disregarded the 
information provided by this exporting producer. 
(96) 
The Commission took this decision because during the verification visit the company failed to explain in time several 
figures presented in the questionnaire reply and link them with the audited accounts, cost management accounts and 
data in the internal IT applications used. Some figures, such as production volumes per product type, energy inputs 
consumption, by-products allocation and manufacturing overheads, that were considered crucial for the calculation 
of the individual dumping margin, could not be reconciled with the above mentioned documents or their allocation 
keys could not be sufficiently explained. Furthermore, due to delays in providing requested data and explanations, 
the Commission could not verify at all certain parts of the questionnaire replies related to the normal value 
determination. Therefore, the Commission did not receive the necessary information within the time limits set in 
the basic Regulation to establish a dumping margin for the company. 
(97) 
In accordance with Article 18(4) of the basic Regulation, by letter of 18 December 2019, the interested party was 
informed of the reasons of the Commission’s intention to disregard the information provided and it was granted the 
opportunity to provide further explanations. 
(98) 
The company replied to the Commission’s letter on 7 January 2020. In its reply, the company did not contest the fact 
that the deficiencies listed in the Commission’s letter had existed. However the company claimed that such 
deficiencies were not serious enough to apply Article 18 of the basic Regulation. The company argued that the 
deficiencies identified by the Commission in its letter were caused by the fact that the information supplied by one 
related company was generally compiled and treated manually rather than through an IT system. Hence, it was 
more prone to contain deficiencies. The company concluded that despite this, the Commission could calculate an 
individual dumping margin on the basis of the information verified on the spot. 
(99) 
The Commission disagreed with the company’s statement that, on the basis of the information verified on the spot, it 
was possible to calculate an individual dumping margin. As set out in recital (93) above, the nature and amount of 
deficiencies identified onspot – irrespective of what their origin may have been – and the fact that the company was 
not able to resolve them during the entirety of the verification visit, effectively prevented the Commission from 
calculating a dumping margin on the basis of verified data. Accordingly, the Commission provisionally disregarded 
the information provided by the exporting producer and confirmed, at this stage, the use of facts available with 
regard to this exporting producer. 
(100) Thus, the description of the dumping margin calculation below refers to the remaining two Chinese exporting 
producers in the sample. 
3.2.2. Normal value 
(101) According to Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, ‘the normal value shall normally be based on the prices paid or 
payable, in the ordinary course of trade, by independent customers in the exporting country’. 
(102) However, according to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, ‘(i)n case it is determined […] that it is not 
appropriate to use domestic prices and costs in the exporting country due to the existence in that country of 
significant distortions within the meaning of point (b), the normal value shall be constructed exclusively on the 
basis of costs of production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks’, and ‘shall include an undistorted 
and reasonable amount of administrative, selling and general costs and for profits’. As further explained below, the 
Commission concluded in the present investigation that, based on the evidence available and in view of the lack of 
cooperation of the GOC, the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation was appropriate. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/14                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

3.2.2.1. Existence of significant distortions 
(a) Introduction 
(103) Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation defines ‘significant distortions are those distortions which occur when reported prices 
or costs, including the costs of raw materials and energy, are not the result of free market forces as they are affected by substantial 
government intervention. In assessing the existence of significant distortions regard shall be had, inter alia, to the potential 
impact of one or more of the following elements: 
— the market in question being served to a significant extent by enterprises which operate under the ownership, control or policy 
supervision or guidance of the authorities of the exporting country; 
— state presence in firms allowing the state to interfere with respect to prices or costs; 
— public policies or measures discriminating in favour of domestic suppliers or otherwise influencing free market forces; 
— the lack, discriminatory application or inadequate enforcement of bankruptcy, corporate or property laws; 
— wage costs being distorted; 
— access to finance granted by institutions which implement public policy objectives or otherwise not acting independently of the 
state’. 
(104) According to Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, the assessment of the existence of significant distortions within 
the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) shall take into account, amongst others, the non-exhaustive list of elements in the 
former provision. Pursuant to Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, in assessing the existence of significant 
distortions, regard shall be had to the potential impact of one or more of these elements on prices and costs in the 
exporting country of the product concerned. Indeed, as that list is non-cumulative, not all the elements need to be 
given regard to for a finding of significant distortions. Moreover, the same factual circumstances may be used to 
demonstrate the existence of one or more of the elements of the list. However, any conclusion on significant 
distortions within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) must be made on the basis of all the evidence at hand. The overall 
assessment on the existence of distortions may also take into account the general context and situation in the 
exporting country, in particular where the fundamental elements of the exporting country’s economic and 
administrative set-up provides the government with substantial powers to intervene in the economy in such a way 
that prices and costs are not the result of the free development of market forces. 
(105) Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic Regulation provides that ‘[w]here the Commission has well-founded indications of the possible 
existence of significant distortions as referred to in point (b) in a certain country or a certain sector in that country, and where 
appropriate for the effective application of this Regulation, the Commission shall produce, make public and regularly update a 
report describing the market circumstances referred to in point (b) in that country or sector’. 
(106) Pursuant to this provision, the Commission has issued a country report concerning the PRC (hereinafter ‘the 
Report’) (12), showing the existence of substantial government intervention at many levels of the economy, 
including specific distortions in many key factors of production (such as land, energy, capital, raw materials and 
labour) as well as in specific sectors (such as steel and chemicals). The Report was placed on the investigation file at 
the initiation stage. The complaint also contained some relevant evidence complementing the Report. Interested 
parties were invited to rebut, comment or supplement the evidence contained in the investigation file at the time of 
initiation. 
(107) In particular, the complaint referred to practices affecting the costs and prices in the stainless steel sector: 
— the Chinese stainless steel market is to a significant extent served by enterprises which operate under the 
ownership, control and policy supervision of the GOC; 
— the costs of raw materials and energy in the PRC are not the result of free market forces as they are affected by 
substantial government intervention, including policies favouring domestic suppliers; 
(12) Commission Staff Working Document on Significant Distortions in the Economy of the People’s Republic of China for the purposes 
of Trade Defence Investigations, 20 December 2017, SWD(2017) 483 final/2. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/15   

— there is still a lack of adequate enforcement of bankruptcy laws, corporate or property laws in the PRC; 
— wage costs are distorted since they do not result from normal market forces or negotiation between companies 
and the work force; 
— stainless steel companies have access to finance granted by institutions which implement public policy objectives 
or otherwise are not acting independently from the State. 
(108) As indicated in recital (30), the GOC did not comment or provide evidence supporting or rebutting the existing 
evidence on the case file, including the Report and the additional evidence provided by the complainant, on the 
existence of significant distortions and/or on the appropriateness of the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation in the case at hand. 
(109) Comments in this regard were received from two of the exporting producers, which claimed that the calculation of 
the normal value pursuant to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is incompatible with the WTO Anti-Dumping 
Agreement (‘ADA’). In this respect, the exporting producers claimed that the Commission should not deviate from 
the standard methodology in establishing the normal value, unless the ADA permits otherwise, and should follow 
the standard methodology in accordance with Article 2 of the ADA. Moreover, the interested parties also claimed 
that the notion of significant distortions does not even exist in the ADA. 
(110) Furthermore, the exporting producers claimed that no evidence was presented on the file that the alleged 
governmental interventions listed in the Report and complaint had led to price distortions of inputs for the 
production of the product concerned. 
(111) For the purpose of this investigation the Commission has concluded in recital (157) that it is appropriate to apply Article 
2(6a) of the basic Regulation. The Commission considers that Article 2(6a) is thus applicable. In addition, the Commission 
considers that this provision is consistent with the European Union’s WTO obligations. It is the Commission’s view that, 
as clarified in DS473 EU-Biodiesel (Argentina), the provisions of the basic Regulation that apply generally with respect to 
all WTO Members, in particular Article 2(5), second subparagraph of the basic Regulation, permit the use of data from a 
third country, duly adjusted when such adjustment is necessary and substantiated. The Commission finally recalled that 
the dispute DS473 EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) did not concern the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, 
which is the relevant legal basis for the determination of normal value in this investigation. Therefore, the Commission 
rejected this claim. 
(112) The Commission examined whether it was appropriate or not to use domestic prices and costs in the PRC, due to the 
existence of significant distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. The 
Commission did so on the basis of the evidence available on the file, including the evidence contained in the 
Report, which relied on publicly available sources. That analysis covered the examination of the substantial 
government interventions in the PRC’s economy in general, but also the specific market situation in the relevant 
sector including the product concerned. 
(113) Regarding the second claim, the Commission noted that the existence of the significant distortions giving rise to the 
application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is not linked to the existence of a specific sectoral chapter 
covering the product under investigation. The Report describes different types of distortions present in the PRC 
which are cross-cutting and applicable throughout the Chinese economy and affect the prices and/or the raw 
materials and costs of production of the product under investigation. As explained in Sections b) to i) below, the 
SSHR industry is subject to a number of governmental interventions described in the Report (coverage by the Five- 
Years Plans and other documents, raw material distortions, financial distortions etc.), which are explicitly listed and 
referenced in this regulation. In addition, recitals (104), (121) to (122), (124) to (128), (135), (138), (141), (151), 
(153) to (154) of this Regulation have also detailed a number of distortions applicable to the SSHR sector and/or to 
its raw materials and inputs beyond the significant distortions already contained in the Report. The market 
circumstances and the underlying policies and plans giving rise to significant distortions are still applicable to the 
SSHR sector and that of its costs of production, despite the Report being released in December 2017. No party 
submitted any evidence to the contrary. Also the additional sources of significant distortions contained in the 
Regulation are still applicable and no party has submitted any evidence to the contrary. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/16                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(114) Therefore, the Commission provisionally rejected the claims made by the two exporting producers. 
(b) Significant distortions affecting the domestic prices and costs in the PRC 
(115) The Chinese economic system is based on the concept of ‘socialist market economy’. That concept is enshrined in the 
Chinese Constitution and determines the economic governance of the PRC. The core principle is the ‘socialist public 
ownership of the means of production, namely, ownership by the whole people and collective ownership by the working people’. 
The State-owned economy is the ‘leading force of the national economy’ and the State has the mandate ‘to ensure its 
consolidation and growth’ (13). Consequently, the overall setup of the Chinese economy not only allows for substantial 
government interventions into the economy, but such interventions are expressly mandated. The notion of 
supremacy of public ownership over the private one permeates the entire legal system and is emphasized as a 
general principle in all central pieces of legislation. The Chinese property law is a prime example: it refers to the 
primary stage of socialism and entrusts the State with upholding the basic economic system under which the public 
ownership plays a dominant role. Other forms of ownership are tolerated, with the law permitting them to develop 
side by side with the State ownership (14). 
(116) In addition, under Chinese law, the socialist market economy is developed under the leadership of the Chinese 
Communist Party (‘CCP’). The structures of the Chinese State and of the CCP are intertwined at every level (legal, 
institutional, personal), forming a superstructure in which the roles of CCP and the State are indistinguishable. 
Following an amendment of the Chinese Constitution in March 2018, the leading role of the CCP was given an even 
greater prominence by being reaffirmed in the text of Article 1 of the Constitution. Following the already existing 
first sentence of the provision: ‘[t]he socialist system is the basic system of the People’s Republic of China’ a new second 
sentence was inserted which reads: ‘[t]he defining feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the leadership of the 
Communist Party of China.’ (15) This illustrates the unquestioned and ever growing control of the CCP over the 
economic system of the PRC. This leadership and control is inherent to the Chinese system and goes well beyond 
the situation customary in other countries where the governments exercise general macroeconomic control within 
the boundaries of which free market forces are at play. 
(117) The Chinese State engages in an interventionist economic policy in pursuance of goals, which coincide with the 
political agenda set by the CCP rather than reflecting the prevailing economic conditions in a free market (16). The 
interventionist economic tools deployed by the Chinese authorities are manifold, including the system of industrial 
planning, the financial system, as well as the level of the regulatory environment. 
(118) First, on the level of overall administrative control, the direction of the Chinese economy is governed by a complex 
system of industrial planning which affects all economic activities within the country. The totality of these plans 
covers a comprehensive and complex matrix of sectors and crosscutting policies and is present on all levels of 
government. Plans at provincial level are detailed while national plans set broader targets. Plans also specify the 
means in order to support the relevant industries/sectors as well as the timeframes in which the objectives need to 
be achieved. Some plans still contain explicit output targets while this was a regular feature in previous planning 
cycles. Under the plans, individual industrial sectors and/or projects are being singled out as (positive or negative) 
priorities in line with the government priorities and specific development goals are attributed to them (industrial 
upgrade, international expansion etc.). The economic operators, private and State-owned alike, must effectively 
adjust their business activities according to the realities imposed by the planning system. This is not only because of 
the binding nature of the plans but also because the relevant Chinese authorities at all levels of government adhere to 
the system of plans and use their vested powers accordingly, thereby inducing the economic operators to comply 
with the priorities set out in the plans (see also section e) below) (17). 
(119) Second, on the level of allocation of financial resources, the financial system of the PRC is dominated by the State- 
owned commercial banks. Those banks, when setting up and implementing their lending policy need to align 
themselves with the government’s industrial policy objectives rather than primarily assessing the economic merits 
of a given project (see also section h) below) (18). The same applies to the other components of the Chinese financial 
system, such as the stock markets, bond markets, private equity markets etc. Also these parts of the financial sector 
(13) Report – Chapter 2, p. 6–7. 
(14) Report – Chapter 2, p. 10. 
(15) Available at http://www.fdi.gov.cn/1800000121_39_4866_0_7.html (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(16) Report – Chapter 2, p. 20–21. 
(17) Report – Chapter 3, p. 41, 73–74. 
(18) Report – Chapter 6, p. 120–121. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/17   

other than the banking sector are institutionally and operationally set up in a manner not geared towards 
maximizing the efficient functioning of the financial markets but towards ensuring control and allowing 
intervention by the State and the CCP (19). 
(120) Third, on the level of regulatory environment, the interventions by the State into the economy take a number of 
forms. For instance, the public procurement rules are regularly used in pursuit of policy goals other than economic 
efficiency, thereby undermining market based principles in the area. The applicable legislation specifically provides 
that public procurement shall be conducted in order to facilitate the achievement of goals designed by State policies. 
However, the nature of these goals remains undefined, thereby leaving broad margin of appreciation to the decision- 
making bodies (20). Similarly, in the area of investment, the GOC maintains significant control and influence over the 
destination and magnitude of both State and private investment. Investment screening as well as various incentives, 
restrictions, and prohibitions related to investment are used by authorities as an important tool for supporting 
industrial policy goals, such as maintaining State control over key sectors or bolstering domestic industry (21). 
(121) In sum, the Chinese economic model is based on certain basic axioms, which provide for and encourage manifold 
government interventions. Such substantial government interventions are at odds with the free play of market 
forces, resulting in distorting the effective allocation of resources in line with market principles (22). 
(c) Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), first indent of the basic Regulation: the market in question 
being served to a significant extent by enterprises which operate under the ownership, control or policy 
supervision or guidance of the authorities of the exporting country 
(122) In the PRC, enterprises operating under the ownership, control and/or policy supervision or guidance by the State 
represent an essential part of the economy. 
(123) The GOC and the CCP maintain structures that ensure their continued influence over enterprises, and in particular 
State-owned enterprises (SOEs). The State (and in many aspects also the CCP) not only actively formulates and 
oversees the implementation of general economic policies by individual SOEs, but it also claims its rights to 
participate in operational decision making in SOEs. This is typically done through rotation of cadres between 
government authorities and SOEs, through presence of party members on SOEs executive bodies and of party cells 
in companies (see also section d)), as well as through shaping the corporate structure of the SOE sector (23). In 
exchange, SOEs enjoy a particular status within the Chinese economy, which entails a number of economic benefits, 
in particular shielding from competition and preferential access to relevant inputs, including finance (24). 
(124) Specifically in the steel sector, a substantial degree of ownership by the GOC persists. While the nominal split 
between the number of SOEs and privately owned companies is estimated to be almost even, from the five Chinese 
steel producers ranked in the top 10 of the world’s largest steel producers four are SOEs (25). At the same time, while 
the top ten producers only took up some 36 % of total industry output in 2016, the GOC set the target in the same 
year to consolidate 60 % to 70 % of iron and steel production to around ten large-scale enterprises by 2025 (26). This 
(19) Report – Chapter 6, p. 122–135. 
(20) Report – Chapter 7, p. 167–168. 
(21) Report – Chapter 8, p. 169–170, 200–201. 
(22) Report – Chapter 2, p. 15–16, Report – Chapter 4, p. 50, p. 84, Report – Chapter 5, p. 108–109. 
(23) Report – Chapter 3, p. 22–24 and Chapter 5, p. 97–108. 
(24) Report – Chapter 5, p. 104–109. 
(25) Report – Chapter 14, p. 358: 51 % private and 49 % SOEs in terms of production and 44 % SOEs and 56 % private companies in 
terms of capacity. 
(26) Available at www.gov.cn/zhengce/content/2016-02/04/content_5039353.htm (last viewed 2 March 2020), https://policycn. 
com/policy_ticker/higher-expectations-for-large-scale-steel-enterprise/?iframe=1&secret=c8uthafuthefra4e 
(last viewed 2 March 2020), and www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-04/23/c_138001574.htm (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/18                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

intention has been repeated by the GOC in April 2019, announcing a release of guidelines on steel industry 
consolidation (27). Such consolidation may entail forced mergers of profitable private companies with 
underperforming SOEs (28). An example of a recent merger are the steel producers Baosteel Group Corp. and 
Wuhan Iron & Steel Group Corp. in 2016, creating worlds second largest steel producer (29). The major stainless 
steel producers are state-owned, for example Tisco, Baosteel, Ansteel Lianzhong, Jiujuan Iron and Steel and 
Tangshan. 
(125) Furthermore, the PRC is the world’s leading consumer of nickel. Nickel is an important raw material giving, together 
with chromium, the stainless steel its stainless properties. The nickel content is also the cost driver for nickel ore, 
which, in turn, is the cost driver for the immediate inputs of the product concerned. It is used in the production of 
SSHR in various forms, e.g. nickel ore, nickel pig iron, ferronickel, pure nickel, nickel scrap, stainless steel scrap. The 
complainant estimated that nickel in its various forms accounted for more than 50 % of the production costs of 
stainless steel in the PRC (30). In 2016, the country used 1,04 million tonnes, accounting for 52 % of the global 
nickel consumption. In 2017, Chinese consumption was set to increase by 2,9 % to 1,07 million tonnes. The 
production of stainless steel represents the dominant use for nickel in the PRC (84 %). This proportion is 
significantly higher than the international average (64 %). The consumption of nickel has increased strongly in 
2016 and 2017 (31), as Chinese stainless steel production expanded by 15,7 % to 24,9 million tonnes. Because 
output in the rest of the world grew by only 4,3 %, the PRC’s share of world production reached 54,5 %. The surge 
in output comes on the back of strong infrastructure spending by the GOC and robust real estate construction. 
Statistics indicated that much of the PRC’s fixed asset investment has been organized by the GOC and its SOEs, both 
of which have displayed higher investment growth than the private sector (32). 
(126) With the high level of government intervention in the steel industry and non-ferrous metal industry (‘NFM’), and a 
high share of SOEs in these sectors, even privately owned steel producers are prevented from operating under 
market conditions. Indeed, both public and privately owned enterprises in the steel sector are also subject to policy 
supervision and guidance as set out in section e) below. 
(127) On the basis of the above, it is concluded that the SSHR market in the PRC was served to a significant extent by 
enterprises subject to the ownership, control or policy supervision or guidance by the GOC. 
(d) Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), second indent of the basic Regulation: State presence in 
firms allowing the state to interfere with respect to prices or costs 
(128) Apart from exercising control over the economy by means of ownership of SOEs and other tools, the GOC is in 
position to interfere with prices and costs through State presence in firms. While the right to appoint and to 
remove key management personnel in SOEs by the relevant State authorities, as provided for in the Chinese 
legislation, can be considered to reflect the corresponding ownership rights (33), CCP cells in enterprises, state- 
owned and private alike, represent another important channel through which the State can interfere with business 
decisions. According to the PRC’s company law, a CCP organisation is to be established in every company (with at 
least three CCP members as specified in the CCP Constitution (34)) and the company shall provide the necessary 
conditions for the activities of the party organisation. In the past, this requirement appears not to have always been 
followed or strictly enforced. However, since at least 2016 the CCP has reinforced its claims to control business 
(27) Available at http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-04/23/c_138001574.htm (last viewed 2 March 2020) and http://www.jjckb. 
cn/2019-04/23/c_137999653.htm (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(28) As was the case of the merger between the private company Rizhao and the SOE Shandong Iron and Steel in 2009. See Beijing steel 
report, p. 58, and the acquired majority stake of China Baowu Steel Group in Magang Steel in June 2019, see https://www.ft. 
com/content/a7c93fae-85bc-11e9-a028-86cea8523dc2 (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(29) See Reuters, ‘China’s Baosteel’s takeover of Wuhan to create world’s No 2 steelmaker’ https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china- 
baosteel-mergers-idUSKCN11Q0U3 (last viewed 10 March 2020). 
(30) Annex 29 of the complaint. 
(31) The World Nickel Factbook 2018 http://insg.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/publist_The-World-Nickel-Factbook-2018.pdf (last 
viewed 3 March 2020). 
(32) ‘Analysis of Market-Distortions in the Chinese Non-Ferrous Metals Industry’ © THINK!DESK China Research & Consulting – pages 
136–138 
https://eurometaux.eu/media/1624/study_-analysis-of-market-distortions-in-china.pdf (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(33) Report – Chapter 5, p. 100–101. 
(34) Report – Chapter 2, p. 26 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/19   

decisions in SOEs as a matter of political principle. The CCP is also reported to exercise pressure on private 
companies to put ‘patriotism’ first and to follow party discipline (35). In 2017, it was reported that party cells existed 
in 70 % of some 1,86 million privately owned companies, with growing pressure for the CCP organisations to have a 
final say over the business decisions within their respective companies (36). These rules are of general application 
throughout the Chinese economy, across all sectors, including to the producers of SSHR and the suppliers of their 
inputs. 
(129) Specifically in the steel sector, as already pointed out, many of the major producers are owned by the State (see recital 
(123)). Some are specifically referred to in the ‘Steel Industry Adjustment and Upgrading plan for 2016-2020’ (37). 
The main state-owned producing exporters are often the world leading producers of SSHR, whether integrated or 
not. For instance, the Chinese State-owned Shanxi Taiyuan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. (‘TISCO’) mentions on its website 
that it is ‘a super iron and steel giant as well as leading enterprise in global stainless steel industry’, ‘the biggest stainless steel 
enterprise equipped with globally biggest capacity and most up-to-date technology and equipment’. Accordingly, ‘TISCO has 
developed into an extraordinary large-scale iron and steel complex, which is integrated with business of iron mining, iron and 
steel production, processing, delivery and trading’ (38). Baosteel is another major Chinese State-owned enterprise that 
engages in stainless steel manufacturing and is detained by the recently consolidated China Baowu Steel Group Co. 
Ltd. (formerly Baosteel Group and Wuhuan Iron & Steel) (39). 
(130) The GOC is also present in the stainless steel enterprises by personal appointments. An example of such approach is 
the stainless steel producer TISCO, where the appointed Deputy Secretary of the CCP Committee was also 
nominated the President of TISCO by a decision from the Shanxi Province CCP Committee and Government (40). 
(131) The State’s presence and intervention in the financial markets (see also section h) below) as well as in the provision of 
raw materials and inputs further have an additional distorting effect on the SSHR market (41). Thus, the State 
presence in firms, including SOEs, in the steel and other sectors (such as the financial and input sectors including 
NFM) allow the GOC to interfere with respect to prices and costs. 
(132) GOC directly intervenes in the pricing of capital, labour, land, raw-materials and basic inputs to the production 
process. Although the prices for final products are mostly determined by market mechanisms, the price distortions 
created at the beginning of the value chain cast long shadows at these very prices and create ‘wrong’ price signals 
that do not reflect the true scarcities in the industry and distort the profit/loss balances of all players involved. 
(e) Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), third indent of the basic Regulation: public policies or 
measures discriminating in favour of domestic suppliers or otherwise influencing free market forces 
(133) The direction of the Chinese economy is to a significant degree determined by an elaborate system of planning which 
sets out priorities and prescribes the goals the central and local governments must focus on. Relevant plans exist on 
all levels of government and cover virtually all economic sectors. The objectives set by the planning instruments are 
of binding nature and the authorities at each administrative level monitor the implementation of the plans by the 
corresponding lower level of government. Overall, the system of planning in the PRC results in resources being 
driven to sectors designated as strategic or otherwise politically important by the government, rather than being 
allocated in line with market forces (42). 
(35) Report – Chapter 2, p. 31232. 
(36) Available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-congress-companies-idUSKCN1B40JU (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(37) The full text of the plan is available on the MIIT website: 
http://www.miit.gov.cn/n1146295/n1652858/n1652930/n3757016/c5353943/content.html (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(38) TISCO, ‘Company profile’, http://en.tisco.com.cn/CompanyProfile/20151027095855836705.html (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(39) Baowu, ‘Company profile’, http://www.baowugroup.com/en/contents/5273/102759.html (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(40) See Complaint. page 19, quoting MCI, ‘Gao Jianbing appointed as the President of TISCO’, 12 October 2018, https://metals- 
consulting.com/gao-jianbing-appointed-as-deputy-party-secretary-deputy-chairman-of-the-board-and-the-president-of-tisco/ 
(last 
viewed 10 March 2020). 
(41) Report – Chapters 14.1 to 14.3. 
(42) Report – Chapter 4, p. 41–42 and 83. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/20                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(134) The steel industry is regarded as a key industry by the GOC (43). This is confirmed in the numerous plans, directives 
and other documents focused on steel, which are issued at national, regional and municipal level such as the ‘Steel 
Industry Adjustment and Upgrading plan for 2016-2020’. This Plan states that the steel industry is ‘an important, 
fundamental sector of the Chinese economy, a national cornerstone’ (44). The main tasks and objectives set out in 
this Plan cover all aspects of the development of the industry (45). 
(135) The 13th Five-Year Plan on Economic and Social Development (46) envisages support to enterprises producing high- 
end steel product types (47). It also focuses on achieving product quality, durability and reliability by supporting 
companies using technologies related to clean steel production, precision rolling and quality improvement (48). 
(136) The ‘Catalogue for Guiding Industry Restructuring (2011 Version) (2013 Amendment)’ (49) (‘the Catalogue’) lists iron 
and steel as encouraged industries. 
(137) The GOC further guides the development of the sector in accordance with a broad range of policy tools and 
directives related to, inter alia: market composition and restructuring, raw materials, investment, capacity 
elimination, product range, relocation, upgrading, etc. Through these and other means, the GOC directs and 
controls virtually every aspect in the development and functioning of the sector (50). The current problem of 
overcapacity is arguably the clearest illustration of the implications of the GOC’s policies and the resulting 
distortions. 
(138) In sum, the GOC has measures in place to induce operators to comply with the public policy objectives of 
supporting encouraged industries, including the production of SSHR, as part of the encouraged steel sector. Such 
measures impede market forces from operating normally. 
(f) Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), fourth indent of the basic Regulation: the lack, 
discriminatory application or inadequate enforcement of bankruptcy, corporate or property laws 
(139) According to the information on file, the Chinese bankruptcy system delivers inadequately on its own main 
objectives such as to fairly settle claims and debts and to safeguard the lawful rights and interests of creditors and 
debtors. This appears to be rooted in the fact that while the Chinese bankruptcy law formally rests on principles 
that are similar to those applied in corresponding laws in countries other than the PRC, the Chinese system is 
characterised by systematic under-enforcement. The number of bankruptcies remains notoriously low in relation to 
the size of the country’s economy, not least because the insolvency proceedings suffer from a number of 
shortcomings, which effectively function as a disincentive for bankruptcy filings. Moreover, the role of the State in 
the insolvency proceedings remains strong and active, often having direct influence on the outcome of the 
proceedings (51). 
(140) In addition, the shortcomings of the system of property rights are particularly obvious in relation to ownership of 
land and land-use rights in the PRC (52). All land is owned by the Chinese State (collectively owned rural land and 
State-owned urban land). Its allocation remains solely dependent on the State. There are legal provisions that aim at 
allocating land use rights in a transparent manner and at market prices, for instance by introducing bidding 
(43) Report, Part III, Chapter 14, p. 346 ff. 
(44) Introduction to The Plan for Adjusting and Upgrading the Steel Industry. 
(45) Report, Chapter 14, p. 347. 
(46) The 13th Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development of the People’s Republic of China (2016–2020), available at https://en. 
ndrc.gov.cn/newsrelease_8232/201612/P020191101481868235378.pdf (last viewed 2 March 2020). 
(47) Report – Chapter 14, p. 349. 
(48) Report – Chapter 14, p. 352. 
(49) Catalogue for Guiding Industry Restructuring (2011 Version) (2013 Amendment) issued by Order No 9 of the National Development 
and Reform Commission on 27 March 2011, and amended in accordance with the Decision of the National Development and Reform 
Commission on Amending the Relevant Clauses of the Catalogue for Guiding Industry Restructuring (2011 Version) issued by Order 
No 21 of the National Development and Reform Commission on 16 February 2013. 
(50) Report – Chapter 14, pp. 375–376. 
(51) Report – Chapter 6, p. 138–149. 
(52) Report – Chapter 9, p. 216. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/21   

procedures. However, these provisions are regularly not respected, with certain buyers obtaining their land for free 
or below market rates (53). Moreover, authorities often pursue specific political goals including the implementation 
of the economic plans when allocating land (54). 
(141) Much like other sectors in the Chinese economy, the producers of SSHR are subject to the ordinary rules on Chinese 
bankruptcy, corporate, and property laws. That has the effect that these companies, too, are subject to the top-down 
distortions arising from the discriminatory application or inadequate enforcement of bankruptcy and property laws. 
The present investigation revealed nothing that would call those findings into question. As such, the Commission 
preliminarily concluded that the Chinese bankruptcy and property laws do not work properly, thus generating 
distortions when maintaining insolvent firms afloat and when allocating land use rights in the PRC. Those 
considerations, on the basis of the evidence available, appear to be fully applicable also in the stainless steel sector. 
(142) In light of the above, the Commission concluded that there was discriminatory application or inadequate 
enforcement of bankruptcy and property laws in the steel sector, including with respect to the product concerned. 
(g) Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), fifth indent of the basic Regulation: wage costs being 
distorted 
(143) A system of market-based wages cannot fully develop in the PRC as workers and employers are impeded in their 
rights to collective organisation. The PRC has not ratified a number of essential conventions of the International 
Labour Organisation (‘ILO’), in particular those on freedom of association and on collective bargaining (55). Under 
national law, only one trade union organisation is active. However, this organisation lacks independence from the 
State authorities and its engagement in collective bargaining and protection of workers’ rights remains 
rudimentary (56). Moreover, the mobility of the Chinese workforce is restricted by the household registration system, 
which limits access to the full range of social security and other benefits to local residents of a given administrative 
area. This typically results in workers who are not in possession of the local residence registration finding 
themselves in a vulnerable employment position and receiving lower income than the holders of the residence 
registration (57). Those findings lead to the distortion of wage costs in the PRC. 
(144) No evidence was submitted to the effect that the steel sector, including the producers of SSHR, would not be subject 
to the Chinese labour law system described. The SSHR part of the steel sector is thus affected by the distortions of 
wage costs both directly (when making the product concerned) as well as indirectly (when having access to capital 
or inputs from companies subject to the same labour system in the PRC). 
(h) Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), sixth indent of the basic Regulation: access to finance 
granted by institutions which implement public policy objectives or otherwise not acting independently of the 
State 
(145) Access to capital for corporate actors in the PRC is subject to various distortions. 
(146) Firstly, the Chinese financial system is characterised by the strong position of State-owned banks (58), which, when 
granting access to finance, take into consideration criteria other than the economic viability of a project. Similarly 
to non-financial SOEs, the banks remain connected to the State not only through ownership but also via personal 
relations (the top executives of large State-owned financial institutions are ultimately appointed by the CCP) (59) and, 
again just like non-financial SOEs, the banks regularly implement public policies designed by the government. In 
(53) Report – Chapter 9, p. 213–215. 
(54) Report – Chapter 9, p. 209–211. 
(55) Report – Chapter 13, p. 332–337. 
(56) Report – Chapter 13, p. 336. 
(57) Report – Chapter 13, p. 337–341. 
(58) Report – Chapter 6, p. 114–117. 
(59) Report – Chapter 6, p. 119. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/22                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

doing so, the banks comply with an explicit legal obligation to conduct their business in accordance with the needs 
of the national economic and social development and under the guidance of the industrial policies of the State (60). 
This is compounded by additional existing rules, which direct finances into sectors designated by the government as 
encouraged or otherwise important (61). 
(147) While it is acknowledged that various legal provisions refer to the need to respect normal banking behaviour and 
prudential rules such as the need to examine the creditworthiness of the borrower, the overwhelming evidence, 
including findings made in trade defence investigations, suggests that these provisions play only a secondary role in 
the application of the various legal instruments. 
(148) Furthermore, bond and credit ratings are often distorted for a variety of reasons including the fact that the risk 
assessment is influenced by the firm’s strategic importance to the GOC and the strength of any implicit guarantee 
by the government. Estimates strongly suggest that Chinese credit ratings systematically correspond to lower 
international ratings (62). 
(149) This is compounded by additional existing rules, which direct finances into sectors designated by the government as 
encouraged or otherwise important (63). This results in a bias for lending to SOEs, large well-connected private firms 
and firms in key industrial sectors, which implies that the availability and cost of capital is not equal for all players on 
the market. 
(150) Secondly, borrowing costs have been kept artificially low to stimulate investment growth. This has led to the 
excessive use of capital investment with ever lower returns on investment. This is illustrated by the recent growth in 
corporate leverage in the state sector despite a sharp fall in profitability, which suggests that the mechanisms at work 
in the banking system do not follow normal commercial responses. 
(151) Thirdly, although nominal interest rate liberalization was achieved in October 2015, price signals are still not the 
result of free market forces, but are influenced by government induced distortions. Indeed, the share of lending at 
or below the benchmark rate still represents 45 % of all lending and recourse to targeted credit appears to have been 
stepped up, since this share has increased markedly since 2015 in spite of worsening economic conditions. 
Artificially low interest rates result in under-pricing, and consequently, the excessive utilization of capital. 
(152) Overall credit growth in the PRC indicates a worsening efficiency of capital allocation without any signs of credit 
tightening that would be expected in an undistorted market environment. As a result, non-performing loans have 
increased rapidly in recent years. Faced with a situation of increasing debt-at-risk, the GOC has opted to avoid 
defaults. Consequently, bad debt issues have been handled by rolling over debt, thus creating so called ‘zombie’ 
companies, or by transferring the ownership of the debt (e.g. via mergers or debt-to-equity swaps), without 
necessarily removing the overall debt problem or addressing its root causes. 
(153) In essence, despite the recent steps that have been taken to liberalize the market, the corporate credit system in the 
PRC is affected by significant distortions resulting from the continuing pervasive role of the state in the capital 
markets. 
(154) No evidence was submitted to the effect that the steel sector, including stainless steel production, would be exempted 
from the above-described government intervention in the financial system. Therefore, the substantial government 
intervention in the financial system leads to the market conditions being severely affected at all levels. 
(60) Report – Chapter 6, p. 120. 
(61) Report – Chapter 6, p. 121–122, 126–128, 133–135. 
(62) See IMF Working Paper ‘Resolving China’s Corporate Debt Problem’, by Wojciech Maliszewski, Serkan Arslanalp, John Caparusso, José 
Garrido, Si Guo, Joong Shik Kang, W. Raphael Lam, T. Daniel Law, Wei Liao, Nadia Rendak, Philippe Wingender, Jiangyan, October 
2016, WP/16/203. 
(63) Report – Chapter 6, p. 121–122, 126–128, 133–135. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/23   

(i) Systemic nature of the distortions described 
(155) The Commission noted that the distortions described in the Report were characteristic for the Chinese economy. The 
evidence available shows that the facts and features of the Chinese system as described above in Sections a)–e) as well 
as in Part A of the Report apply throughout the country and across the sectors of the economy. The same holds true 
for the description of the factors of production as set out above in Sections f)–h) above and in Part B of the Report. 
(156) The Commission recalls that in order to produce SSHR, a broad range of inputs is needed. When the producers of 
SSHR purchase/contract these inputs, the prices they pay (and which are recorded as their costs) are clearly exposed 
to the same systemic distortions mentioned before. For instance, suppliers of inputs employ labour that is subject to 
the distortions. They may borrow money that is subject to the distortions on the financial sector/capital allocation. 
In addition, they are subject to the planning system that applies across all levels of government and sectors. 
(157) As a consequence, not only the domestic sales prices of SSHR are not appropriate for use within the meaning of 
Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, but all the input costs (including raw materials, energy, land, financing, 
labour, etc.) are also tainted because their price formation is affected by substantial government intervention, as 
described in Parts A and B of the Report. Indeed, the government interventions described in relation to the 
allocation of capital, land, labour, energy and raw materials are present throughout the PRC. This means, for 
instance, that an input produced in the PRC by combining a range of factors of production is exposed to significant 
distortions. The same applies for the input to the input and so forth. No evidence or argument to the contrary has 
been adduced by the GOC or the exporting producers in the present investigation. 
(j) Conclusion 
(158) The analysis set out in points a) to i) of this section, which includes an examination of all the available evidence 
relating to the PRC’s intervention in its economy in general as well as in the steel sector showed that prices or costs 
of the product concerned, including the costs of raw materials, energy and labour, are not the result of free market 
forces because they are affected by substantial government intervention within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of 
the basic Regulation as shown by the actual or potential impact of one or more of the relevant elements listed 
therein. On that basis, and in the absence of any cooperation from the GOC, the Commission concluded that it is 
not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs to establish normal value in this case. 
(159) Consequently, the Commission proceeded to construct the normal value exclusively on the basis of costs of 
production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks, that is, in this case, on the basis of corresponding 
costs of production and sale in an appropriate representative country, in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the 
basic Regulation, as discussed in the following section. 
3.2.2.2. Representative country 
(160) The choice of the representative country was based on the following criteria: 
— A level of economic development similar to the PRC. For this purpose, the Commission used countries with a 
gross national income similar to the PRC on the basis of the database of the World Bank (64); 
— Production of the product under investigation in that country; 
— Availability of relevant public data in that country; 
— Where there is more than one possible representative country, preference was given, where appropriate, to the 
country with an adequate level of social and environmental protection. 
(161) As explained in recitals (33) to (35) the Commission published two notes for the file on the sources for the 
determination of the normal value. 
(64) World Bank Open Data – Upper Middle Income, available at https://data.worldbank.org/income-level/upper-middle-income (last 
viewed 2 March 2020). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/24                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(162) In the Note of 9 September, the Commission informed interested parties that, on the basis of the criteria listed in 
recital (157), it had identified the following four possible representative countries: Brazil, Malaysia, South Africa, 
and Turkey. 
(163) The Commission received comments from three interested parties: the complainant and two of the sampled Chinese 
exporting producers. 
(164) Both Chinese exporting producers claimed in their submissions that Malaysia would be the best representative 
country because it fulfils all the criteria of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, while Brazil and South Africa 
allegedly have a lower level of social and environmental protection. 
(165) On the other hand, the complainant indicated in its submission that there was no production of the product under 
investigation in Malaysia or Turkey. 
(166) The Malaysian company identified as potential producer of the product under investigation is, according to the 
submission of the complainant, engaged only in the rerolling of hot-rolled coils into cold-rolled coils and it 
apparently did not possess either a melting workshop or a hot-rolling line. The complainant based its claims in this 
regard on the consolidated audited financial statement of the Acerinox Group of 2017. The financial report of the 
Group of 2018 also confirmed this allegation. 
(167) With regard to Turkey, the complainant claimed that the company in question was only engaged in the production of 
an insignificant amount of stainless steel products. Furthermore, this production was limited to long products of 
martensitic steel with billets as a raw material, which would actually exclude the production of the product under 
investigation. 
(168) The Commission’s own research confirmed the claims of the complainant on the basis of the consolidated audited 
report of 2018 of the Acerinox Group and the official websites of the two companies in question. 
(169) The complainant confirmed that the product under investigation is produced in South Africa by one of the 
companies of the Acerinox Group, as indicated by the Commission in the Note of 9 September. However, the 
complainant raised several arguments in favour of choosing Brazil as a representative country rather than South 
Africa. 
(170) First, the complainant indicated that in terms of economic development measured by the GNI index Brazil is much 
closer to the PRC than South Africa is (South Africa has a significantly lower position in these statistics). 
(171) However, even if in terms of actual GNI data South Africa is more distant from the PRC than Brazil, all three 
countries are still classified as upper-middle income countries by the World Bank. Therefore, the Commission 
rejected this claim. 
(172) Second, the complainant claimed that South Africa was the world’s biggest producer of chromium, an important 
input for stainless steel, and therefore the price level of this input would not be representative. 
(173) The fact that a country produces an input of the product under investigation does not automatically make the price 
level of imports of that product into that country not representative. The complainant did not provide evidence of 
the impact of the large domestic production on the import price. Therefore, the Commission found this claim 
unsubstantiated. 
(174) Finally, the complainant provided the Commission with the publicly available audited accounts of the Brazilian 
producer of the product under investigation mentioned in the Note of 9 September, which could be used as a 
source of data for the SG&A costs and profit needed in the calculation of the normal value. For the South African 
producer identified in the same Note, such data were only available on the consolidated group level. 
(175) Based on the quality and detail of the readily available financial data in Brazil, as provided by the complainant, and 
also considering the representativeness of the factors of production as explained in section 3.2.2.3 below, the 
Commission concluded that Brazil should be considered an appropriate representative country in its Note of 10 
October. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/25   

(176) Having established Brazil as an appropriate representative country in terms of level of development and availability 
of relevant import statistics and financial data, the Commission did not consider it necessary to assess the level of 
social and environmental protection of the potential representative countries. 
(177) No comments from interested parties were received with regard to the Note of 10 October. 
(178) In view of the above analysis, Brazil meets all the criteria laid down in Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic 
Regulation in order to be considered as an appropriate representative country. In particular, in addition to having a 
level of economic development similar to the PRC, Brazil has a substantial production of the product under 
investigation and a complete set of data available for the factors of production, SG&A and profit during the 
investigation period. 
3.2.2.3. Sources used to establish undistorted costs 
(179) On the basis of the information submitted by the interested parties and other relevant information available in the 
file, the Commission established in the Note of 9 September an initial list of factors of production and sources 
intended to be used for all factors of production such as materials, energy and labour used in the production of the 
product under investigation by the exporting producers. The Commission stated that in order to construct the 
normal value in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, it would use as much as possible Global 
Trade Atlas (‘GTA’) to establish the undistorted cost of the factors of production, the statistics of the International 
Labour Organisation (‘ILO’) and national statistics to establish the undistorted costs of labour, and other sources 
depending on the selected representative country to establish the undistorted costs of energy (such as electricity, 
natural gas, and water). In the same note, the Commission identified the Harmonised System (HS) codes of factors 
of production which, on the basis of information provided by the interested parties, were initially considered to be 
used for the GTA analysis. 
(180) In this regard, a comment was received only from the complainant indicating that for some factors of production the 
HS codes proposed by the Commission had too wide a coverage and might include a mix of products not being 
representative of the chemical composition of the inputs actually used in the production of the product under 
investigation. The Commission took note of this remark. It was taken into account in further stages of the 
investigation depending on the goods codes of the representative country and on the findings from the verification 
visits of the exporting producers. 
(181) The Commission further analysed the initial information received on HS codes from interested parties and found 
that certain factors of production, i.e. certain raw materials and consumables, were possibly not correctly classified. 
The amended HS codes and list of factors of production were published in the Note of 10 October. The 
Commission analysed also the availability of import data which would be used for the calculation of benchmarks 
for undistorted costs and checked the existence of restrictions in the representative country concerning exports of 
the factors of production. 
(182) In the Note of 10 October the Commission confirmed that it would use GTA to establish undistorted costs of the 
factors of production, the ILO statistics and other publicly available sources (65) to establish undistorted labour 
costs, and the tariffs charged by selected Brazilian suppliers of electricity, natural gas and water to establish 
undistorted costs of those types of energy. 
(183) In the same note, the Commission also informed interested parties that, to establish the undistorted SG&A and 
profit, it would use the financial data of the sole known Brazilian producer of the product under investigation for 
which detailed financial data is publicly available – Aperam Inox America do Sul S.A. Interested parties did not 
submit, and the Commission did not find, publicly available financial data of any other producer of the product 
under investigation in Brazil. 
(184) Following the Note of 10 October, the Commission did not receive any further comments concerning the sources for 
undistorted costs and benchmarks. Therefore, the sources listed in recitals (178) to (180) were provisionally 
confirmed. 
(65) For example see https://www.jornalcontabil.com.br/quanto-custa-um-funcionario-aprenda-a-calcular/ or https://establishbrazil. 
com/articles/whats-real-cost-employee (last viewed 3 March 2020). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/26                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

3.2.2.4. Undistorted costs and benchmarks 
(185) As already stated in recitals (176) and (178) to (179), the Commission sought to establish an initial list of factors of 
production and sources intended to be used for all factors of production such as materials, energy and labour used 
in the production of the product concerned by the exporting producers. 
(186) The Commission did not receive any comments concerning the list of factors of production following the Note of 10 
October where, based on the information received from interested parties, the Commission established a list of all 
the potential HS codes corresponding to the factors of production used in the manufacturing of the product 
concerned. 
(187) The Commission then established a definitive list of factors of production and corresponding HS codes after the 
verification visits at the premises of the sampled exporting producers. 
(188) Considering all the information submitted by interested parties and collected during the verification visits, the 
following factors of production and HS codes, where applicable, have been identified: 
Table 1                                                              
Factor of Production 
HS code 
Undistorted value 
Unit 
Raw Materials/Auxiliary Materials 
Quartzite 
2506 20 
1 945,57 
CNY/t 
Fireclay 
2508 30 
4 109,80 
CNY/t 
Serpentine 
2516 90 
4 257,06 
CNY/t 
Fused magnesia; dead-burned (sintered) magnesia, whether 
or not containing small quantities of other oxides added be­
fore sintering; other magnesium oxide, where or not pure 
2519 90 
8 993,25 
CNY/t 
Fluorspar – Containing by weight 97 % or less of calcium 
fluoride 
2529 21 
2 126,27 
CNY/t 
Iron ore, non-agglomerated (powder); Lump Iron Ore 
2601 11 
8 300,12 
CNY/t 
Iron ore, agglomerated (sinter) 
2601 12 
1 165,36 
CNY/t 
Chromium Ores and Concentrates 
2610 00 
4 493,41 
CNY/t 
Fat coal; Coking coal 
2701 12 
1 412,62 
CNY/t 
Lean coal; Electric coal; Gas coal 
2701 19 
1 268,12 
CNY/t 
Coke; Coke powder; Metallurgical coke 
2704 00 
2 703,69 
CNY/t 
Lubricating Oil 
2710 19 
73,73 
CNY/t 
Carbon 
2803 00 
9 656,11 
CNY/t 
Calcium (Wire) 
2805 12 
34 597,60 
CNY/t 
Sulphuric Acid 
2807 00 
560,10 
CNY/t 
Nitric Acid 
2808 00 
2 582,31 
CNY/t 
Hydrofluoric Acid 
2811 11 
11 085,17 
CNY/t 
Ammonia anhydrous 
2814 10 
1 920,32 
CNY/t 
Molybdenum oxide or hydroxide 
2825 70 
134 622,70 
CNY/t 
Ferrous sulfide 
2830 90 
92 317,53 
CNY/t 
Hydrogen Peroxide 
2847 00 
15 955,82 
CNY/t 
Core wire; Casting powder 
3824 99 
15 192,47 
CNY/t 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/27   

Factor of Production 
HS code 
Undistorted value 
Unit 
Medium Nickel pig iron; Low Nickel pig iron 
[N/A] 
(see recital 
(190)) 
84 151,00 
Adjusted for ac­
tual nickel con­
tent (1) 
CNY/t 
Ferro Manganese, containing by weight > 2 % carbon 
7202 11 
8 143,34 
CNY/t 
Ferro Manganese, containing by weight <= 2 % carbon 
7202 19 
12 910,85 
CNY/t 
Ferro-silicon, > 55 % silicon 
7202 21 
12 754,53 
CNY/t 
Ferro-silicon manganese 
7202 30 
8 077,34 
CNY/t 
Ferro-chromium, > 4 % carbon 
7202 41 
9 475,88 
CNY/t 
Ferronickel 
[N/A] 
(see recital 
(190)) 
21 879,38 
CNY/t 
Ferro-molybdenum 
7202 70 
130 503,79 
CNY/t 
Ferrotungsten iron 
7202 80 
200 436,70 
CNY/t 
Ferro-titanium 
7202 91 
25 925,68 
CNY/t 
Ferro-niobium 
[N/A] (see recital 
(190)) 
145 667,77 
CNY/t 
Ferro-boron; Ferro-silico-calcium Alloy 
7202 99 
14 659,67 
CNY/t 
Cast iron scrap 
7204 10 
909,47 
CNY/t 
Stainless steel scrap 
7204 21 
6 600,08 
CNY/t 
Ferrous waste and scrap other than turnings, shavings, chips, 
milling waste, sawdust, filings, trimmings stampings; of material 
other than cast iron, alloy steel, tinned iron or steel 
7204 49 
2 388,92 
CNY/t 
Granules of pig iron, spiegeleisen, iron or steel 
7205 10 
9 625,10 
CNY/t 
Iron Torching Powder 
7205 29 
8 830,75 
CNY/t 
Molten iron 
[N/A] 
(see recital 
(190)) 
2 715,76 
CNY/t 
Reinforcing Bars 
7214 20 
3 961,67 
CNY/t 
Shot Blast pellets 
7326 11 
7 016,25 
CNY/t 
Cathodes Copper 
7403 11 
42 901,10 
CNY/t 
Other articles of copper; cast, moulded, stamped or forged, 
but not further worked; excluding chains and parts thereof. 
7419 91 
276 619,84 
CNY/t 
Nickel, Not Alloyed 
7502 10 
98 182,60 
CNY/t 
Nickel waste and scrap 
7503 00 
640,77 
CNY/t 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/28                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

Factor of Production 
HS code 
Undistorted value 
Unit 
Nickel bars, rods and profiles of nickel alloys 
7505 12 
172 600,22 
CNY/t 
Aluminium Ingot; Aluminium, unwrought, unalloyed 
7601 10 
15 833,50 
CNY/t 
Aluminium Wire, not alloyed 
7605 11 
16 103,02 
CNY/t 
Aluminium plates, sheets and strip 
7606 91 
22 469,41 
CNY/t 
Molybdenum bars and rods 
8102 95 
817 404,83 
CNY/t 
Cobalt mattes and other intermediate products of cobalt 
metallurgy 
8105 20 
180 180,50 
CNY/t 
Sponge Titanium 
8108 20 
72 277,73 
CNY/t 
Manganese 
8111 00 
17 032,79 
CNY/t 
Electrodes of graphite 
8545 11 
57 656,22 
CNY/t 
Slab 
[N/A] 
(see recital 
(190)) 
14 033,74 
CNY/t 
Labour 
Labour costs in manufacturing sector 
[N/A] 
33,88 
CNY/hour 
Energy 
Electricity 
[N/A] 
0,82 
CNY/kWh 
Natural Gas 
[N/A] 
3,23 
CNY/m3 
Water 
[N/A] 
68,88 
CNY/m3 
Argon 
2804 21 
8,03 
CNY/m3 
Oxygen 
2804 40 
13,04 
CNY/m3 
(1) As explained in recital (190), the London Metal Exchange was used as the basis for this undistorted value, corrected for the 
nickel content of the raw material. As the nickel content varied between the sampled companies, the exact undistorted value is 
given in the company-specific disclosure.   
(a) Raw materials and auxiliary materials 
(189) During the verification visits, the Commission verified the raw materials and auxiliary materials used in the 
manufacture of the product concerned. 
(190) For all raw materials and auxiliary materials, with the exception of those described in recitals (190) and (192) below, 
the Commission relied on import prices in the representative country. The import price in the representative 
country was determined as a weighted average of unit prices of imports from all third countries excluding the PRC. 
The Commission decided to exclude imports from the PRC into the representative country as it concluded in recital 
(156) that it is not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs in the PRC due to the existence of significant 
distortions in accordance with Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation. Given that there is no evidence showing that 
the same distortions do not equally affect products intended for export, the Commission considered that the same 
distortions affected export prices. Furthermore, it appears that the import price of the main raw materials exported 
by the PRC into Brazil are lower than the weighted average of the imports of other countries. Similarly, import data 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/29   

on imports in the representative country from non-WTO members listed in Annex 1 of Regulation (EU) 
2015/755 (66) were also excluded. Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation considers that domestic prices in those 
countries cannot be used for the purpose of determining normal value and, in any event, such import data was 
negligible. 
(191) In order to establish the undistorted price of raw materials, delivered at the gate of the exporting producer’s factory 
as provided by Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic Regulation, the Commission added international transport 
and insurance costs (67)and applied the import duty of the representative country. At a later stage, during the 
individual dumping margin calculations, the Commission added company specific domestic transport costs to the 
import price. The international and domestic transport costs for all raw materials as well as insurance costs were 
estimated based on the verified data provided by the sampled exporting producers. 
(192) For some raw materials for which there was no benchmark or the available benchmark was considered non- 
representative (68) on the basis of the imports statistics into the representative country, the Commission used 
benchmarks based on undistorted international prices or other reasonable data. This was done for five inputs: 
(a) ferro-nickel and nickel pig iron – benchmarks were based on the London Metal Exchange adjusted for the nickel 
content of the alloy, 
(b) ferro-niobium – benchmark was based on GTA, calculated as the weighted average export price of the most 
relevant exporting country in the IP, Brazil (69), 
(c) molten iron – benchmark was based on GTA – calculated as the weighted average price based on the most 
relevant worldwide exporter in the IP, Iran (70), 
(d) stainless steel slab – benchmark was on GTA – calculated as the weighted average of all exports from the world’s 
third largest exporter in the IP, South Korea (71). 
(193) Where the export price (72) was used to determine the undistorted price of a raw material, no further adjustments to 
the data from GTA were made. The Commission considered that the costs between a Brazilian supplier and an 
international port accounted for the costs between such supplier and its Brazilian customer. The price from GTA 
could, therefore, be accepted as price of a raw material as delivered at the gate of the exporting producer’s factory. 
(194) For some raw materials and auxiliary materials (73), the sampled exporting producers were not able to determine the 
consumption volume in their records or no proper benchmark could be established in the representative country. 
Overall, those inputs were negligible in terms of costs. Those costs were included in the manufacturing overheads as 
explained in recital (198), as the actual costs of those raw materials represented a negligible share on the total actual 
costs of manufacturing of the sampled exporting companies. The factors of production moved to overheads were 
listed in the company-specific disclosures. 
(b) Labour 
(195) To establish the benchmark for labour costs, the Commission used the ILO statistics together with publicly available 
information on additional labour costs incurred by an employer in Brazil. 
(66) Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on common rules for imports from 
certain third countries (OJ L 123, 19.5.2015, p. 33). 
(67) Brazilian imports are reported at FOB level in GTA. 
(68) Due to export restrictions or negligible quantities imported. 
(69) Exports to the PRC were excluded. https://connect.ihs.com/home (last viewed 3 March 2020). 
(70) Exports to the PRC were excluded. https://connect.ihs.com/home (last viewed 3 March 2020). 
(71) South Korea is the third largest exporter of SS slabs – after Indonesia (the country under investigation) and second exporter being the 
UK. Exports to the PRC were excluded. The remaining exporting countries accounted for substantially smaller volumes. 
(72) On FOB basis. 
(73) These materials were listed for each company in their respective specific disclosures. Additionally, one of the energy factors, i.e. steam, 
for all the companies, was treated in the same way. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/30                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(196) The ILO statistics (74) provided data on the mean weekly hours actually worked per employed person and monthly 
earnings of employees in manufacturing during the investigation period. Using that data, the Commission 
calculated an hourly salary in manufacturing, to which additional labour related costs (75) (social security and 
unemployment contributions born by the employer) were added. 
(c) Energy inputs 
(197) The electricity price charged by one of the largest electricity suppliers in Brazil, the company EDP Brazil, was readily 
available (76). The information was detailed enough to identify the price of electricity and the price for the use of the 
distribution system (modalidade tarifaria azul) paid by industrial users. 
(198) It should be noted that in Brazil, the regulatory authority Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica (77) (‘ANEEL’), obliges 
the electricity suppliers to increase their tariffs by a certain percentage to regulate the consumption of electricity in 
the country. ANEEL uses a flag system (78) (green, yellow, red 1, red 2) to signal whether the electricity price should 
remain as proposed by the supplier (green) or increased by 0,010 BRL/kWh (yellow), 0,030 BRL/kWh (red 1), or 
0,050 BRL/kWh (red 2). The flags are published by ANEEL on a monthly basis and for the investigation period were 
readily available on the website of EDP Brazil (79). When determining the undistorted costs of electricity, the 
Commission took into account the flags applied during the investigation period and adjusted the price accordingly. 
(199) The water tariff is readily available as charged by the company Sabesp that is responsible for water supply, sewage 
collection and treatment in the State of Sao Paulo. The information enables to identify tariffs (80) applicable for 
industrial users in the investigation period for various sub-regions and municipalities of the State of Sao Paulo (81). 
The Commission based its determination of undistorted costs for water and sewage collection on the tariff 
applicable to industrial customers in the Metropolitan area of the State of Sao Paulo during the investigation period. 
(200) The price of natural gas is readily available as charged by the biggest gas distributor in Brazil, the company Comgas, 
which focuses on the State of Sao Paulo. The information provided on Comgas’ website (82) enables to determine the 
price of natural gas supplied to industrial users. 
3.2.2.5. Manufacturing overhead costs, SG&A and profits 
(201) The manufacturing overheads incurred by the cooperating exporting producers were increased by the costs of raw 
materials and auxiliary materials referred to in recital (192) and subsequently expressed as a share of the costs of 
manufacturing actually incurred by each of the sampled exporting producers. This percentage was applied to the 
undistorted costs of manufacturing. 
(202) For SG&A and profit, the Commission used the financial data of the sole known Brazilian producer of the product 
under investigation for which detailed financial data is publicly available – Aperam Inox America do Sul S.A. 
Publicly available audited accounts of the company were made known to the interested parties as an attachment to 
the Note of 10 October. 
3.2.2.6. Calculation of the normal value 
(203) In order to establish the constructed normal value, the Commission took the following steps. 
(74) Available 
at 
https://www.ilo.org/ilostat/faces/oracle/webcenter/portalapp/pagehierarchy/Page21.jspx? 
_afrLoop=518377340582818&_afrWindowMode=0&_afrWindowId=o8k2wnnrz_1#!%40%40%3F_afrWindowId% 
3Do8k2wnnrz_1%26_afrLoop%3D518377340582818%26_afrWindowMode%3D0%26_adf.ctrl-state%3Do8k2wnnrz_54 
(last 
viewed 28 February 2020). 
(75) Available at https://establishbrazil.com/articles/whats-real-cost-employee (last viewed 28 February 2020). 
(76) Available at http://www.edp.com.br/distribuicao-es/saiba-mais/informativos/tarifas-aplicadas-a-clientes-atendidos-em-alta-e-media- 
tensao-(grupo-a) (last viewed 4 February 2020). 
(77) Available at http://www.aneel.gov.br/a-aneel (last viewed 4 February 2020). 
(78) Available at http://www.aneel.gov.br/bandeiras-tarifarias (last viewed 4 February 2020). 
(79) Available at http://www.edp.com.br/distribuicao-es/saiba-mais/informativos/bandeira-tarifaria (last viewed 4 February 2020). 
(80) http://site.sabesp.com.br/site/interna/Default.aspx?secaoId=183 (last viewed 28 February 2020). 
(81) For example the Metropolitan area http://site.sabesp.com.br/site/uploads/file/asabesp_doctos/comunicado_06_2018.pdf 
http://site.sabesp.com.br/site/uploads/file/asabesp_doctos/Comunicado%205-19.pdf 
(last viewed 28 February 2020). 
(82) https://www.comgas.com.br/tarifas/historico-de-tarifas/2018-2/ (last viewed 4 February 2020). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/31   

(204) Firstly, the Commission established the undistorted costs of manufacturing. It applied the undistorted unit costs to 
the actual consumption of the individual factors of production of the sampled exporting producers. The costs of 
manufacturing were reduced by the undistorted costs of by-products re-used in the production process as reported 
by the companies. 
(205) Secondly, to arrive at the undistorted costs of production, the Commission added the manufacturing overheads 
determined as described in recital (199) to the undistorted costs of manufacturing. 
(206) Finally, to the costs of production established as described in recital (203), the Commission applied SG&A and the 
profit of Aperam Inox America do Sul S.A. as explained in recitals (200). 
(207) The SG&A expressed as a percentage of the Costs of Goods Sold (‘COGS’) and applied to the undistorted costs of 
production amounted to 13,90 %. 
(208) The profit expressed as a percentage of the COGS and applied to the undistorted costs of production amounted to 
7,65 %. 
(209) The normal value calculated as described in recitals (202) to (206) was reduced by the undistorted value of the by- 
products sold by the sampled companies. 
(210) On that basis, the Commission constructed the normal value per product type on an ex-works basis in accordance 
with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. Since only two Chinese exporting producers were left in the sample, 
the Commission constructed the normal value per product type for these exporting producers only. 
3.2.3. Export price 
(211) The Chinese exporting producers in question exported to the Union directly to independent customers or through 
related companies acting as related exporters in a third country or related importers in the Union. 
(212) Where the exporting producers exported the product concerned directly to independent customers in the Union, the 
export price was the price actually paid or payable for the product concerned when sold for export to the Union, in 
accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation. 
(213) Where the exporting producers exported the product concerned to the Union through related importers in the 
Union, the export price was established on the basis of the price at which the imported product was first resold to 
independent customers in the Union, in accordance with Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation. In this case, 
adjustments to the price were made for all costs incurred between importation and resale, including SG&A expenses 
and a reasonable profit. 
3.2.4. Comparison 
(214) The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the Chinese sampled exporting producers on 
an ex-works basis. 
(215) Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation. Adjustments were made where appropriate for transport, insurance, handling, loading and ancillary 
costs; credit cost; bank charges; SG&A costs of the related exporters, including mark-up. 
(216) The PRC applies a policy of reimbursing VAT only partially upon export and in this case, depending on the month of 
the IP, from 0 % to 3 % VAT was not reimbursed. To ensure that the normal value was expressed at the same level of 
taxation as the export price, the normal value was adjusted upward by that part of VAT charged on exports of the 
product concerned that was not refunded to the Chinese exporting producers. 
3.2.5. Dumping margin 
(217) For the sampled exporting producers, the Commission compared the weighted average normal value of each type of 
the like product with the weighted average export price of the corresponding type of the product concerned, in 
accordance with Article 2(11) and 2(12) of the basic Regulation. 
(218) On that basis, the provisional weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union 
frontier price, duty unpaid, are 108,4 % for STSS and 55,6 % for FSS. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/32                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(219) The dumping margin of the cooperating non-sampled Chinese companies, Xiangshui Defeng Metals Co., Ltd and 
Fujian Dingxin Technology Co., Ltd., is the weighted average between the two individual dumping margins for the 
sampled companies and established at 87,9 %. 
(220) Taking into account the high level of the cooperation of the Chinese exporting producers at a level of 92 % of the 
total Chinese exports of the product under investigation to the Union, the Commission considered it representative 
to set the residual dumping margin applicable to all other (non-cooperating) exporting producers, including the 
company which received Article 18, at a level of 108,4 %, corresponding to the highest individual dumping margin 
of the sampled Chinese companies. 
(221) On this basis, the provisional weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier 
price, duty unpaid, is as follows:                                                              
Company 
Provisional dumping margin (%) 
Shanxi Taigang Stainless Steel Co., Ltd. (1) 
108,4 
Fujian Fuxin Special Steel Co., Ltd 
55,6 
Xiangshui Defeng Metals Co., Ltd 
87,9 
Fujian Dingxin Technology Co., Ltd. 
87,9 
All other companies 
108,4 
(1) The margin applies to all other Chinese producers of the product under investigation of the TISCO group as listed in the 
operative part of the Regulation.   
3.3. Taiwan 
3.3.1. Preliminary remarks 
(222) As mentioned in recital (24), two exporting producers in Taiwan, Yusco Group and Walsin, cooperated with the 
investigation by providing a questionnaire reply. No other exporting producers in Taiwan were identified or came 
forward. 
(223) In addition, as also indicated in recital (24), the unrelated service centre YC Inox cooperated with the investigation by 
providing a questionnaire reply. This company was not related with the two Taiwanese cooperating producers. Its 
cooperation enabled the Commission to obtain a sound understanding of the functioning of the Taiwanese 
domestic and export markets of the product under investigation. In particular, on the basis of the information 
supplied by this party and the verification thereof, the Commission could draw reasonable conclusions as to the 
most likely destination of the reported domestic sales of the two cooperating exporting producers. 
(224) Yusco Group’s domestic sales of the like product in the investigation period were made either directly to unrelated 
customers or indirectly via a related domestic service centre. In both cases, it could be established that some of 
these sales were eventually destined for export. Yusco Group’s export sales to the Union in the investigation period 
were made directly to independent customers or indirectly through either a related service centre located in Taiwan 
or a related trader registered in Hong-Kong but located in Taiwan and the PRC. 
(225) In the case of Walsin, the domestic and export sales of the like product in the investigation period were made directly 
to unrelated customers. 
(226) The Commission examined the domestic sales reported by Yusco Group and Walsin. Based on the findings during 
the on-spot verifications in Taiwan, for the transactions where the destination of goods were sea ports or bonded 
factories (83) (i.e. 0 % VAT), or for certain other reported domestic sales and based on explanations given on the spot 
by the exporting producers or YC Inox, the Commission reclassified these domestic sales as export sales. These 
transactions were therefore excluded from the domestic sales transactions used for the calculation of the normal 
value. 
(83) Article 6-1 of the Taiwanese law called ‘Value-added and Non-value-added Business Tax Act’ defines a bonded factory as an entity 
operating in an export processing zone. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/33   

3.3.2. Normal value 
(227) The Commission first examined whether the total volume of domestic sales for each investigated exporting producer 
was representative, in accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales are representative if 
the total domestic sales volume of the like product to independent customers on the domestic market per exporting 
producer represented at least 5 % of its total export sales volume of the product concerned to the Union during the 
investigation period. 
(228) On this basis, the total volume of domestic sales of the product under investigation by Yusco Group and Walsin on 
the domestic market was found to be representative. 
(229) The Commission subsequently identified the product types sold domestically that were identical or comparable with 
the product types sold for export to the Union for the investigated exporting producers with representative domestic 
sales. 
(230) The Commission then examined whether the product types sold by the exporting producers on their domestic 
market compared with product types sold for export to the Union were representative, in accordance with Article 2 
(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales of a product type are representative if the total volume of domestic 
sales of that product type to independent customers during the investigation period represents at least 5 % of the 
total volume of export sales of the identical or comparable product type to the Union. 
(231) The Commission next defined the proportion of profitable sales to independent customers on the domestic market 
for each product type during the investigation period in order to decide whether to use actual domestic sales for the 
calculation of the normal value, in accordance with Article 2(4) of the basic Regulation. 
(232) The normal value is based on the actual domestic price per product type, irrespective of whether those sales are 
profitable or not, if: 
(a) the sales volume of the product type, sold at a net sales price equal to or above the calculated cost of production, 
represented more than 80 % of the total sales volume of this product type; and 
(b) the weighted average sales price of that product type is equal to or higher than the unit cost of production. 
(233) In this case, the normal value is the weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales of that product type during 
the investigation period. 
(234) The normal value is the actual domestic price per product type of only the profitable domestic sales of the product 
types during the investigation period, if: 
(a) the volume of profitable sales of the product type represents 80 % or less of the total sales volume of this type; or 
(b) the weighted average price of this product type is below the unit cost of production. 
(235) For those product types with no or insufficient sales in the domestic market, the Commission constructed the 
normal value in accordance with Article 2(3) and (6) of the basic Regulation. 
(236) Normal value was constructed by adding the following to the average cost of production of the like product of the 
investigated exporting producers during the investigation period: 
(a) the weighted average selling, general and administrative (‘SG&A’) expenses incurred by the investigated 
exporting producers on domestic sales of the like product, in the ordinary course of trade, during the 
investigation period; and 
(b) the weighted average profit realised by the investigated exporting producers on domestic sales of the like 
product, in the ordinary course of trade, during the investigation period. 
(237) For the product types not sold in representative quantities on the domestic market, the average SG&A expenses and 
profit of transactions made in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market for those types were added. For 
the product types not sold at all on the domestic market, or where no sales were found in the ordinary course of 
trade, the weighted average SG&A expenses and profit of all transactions made in the ordinary course of trade on 
the domestic market were added. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/34                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

3.3.3. Export price 
(238) The exporting producers exported to the Union either directly to independent customers or through related 
companies. 
(239) The export price was, thus, established on the basis of prices actually paid or payable for the product concerned 
when sold for export to the Union, in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation. 
3.3.4. Comparison 
(240) The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the exporting producers on an ex-works basis. 
(241) Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and prices comparability, in accordance with to Article 2(10) of the 
basic Regulation. 
(242) Adjustments were made where appropriate for transport, insurance, handling, loading and ancillary costs, packing 
fees, credit cost, bank charges, commissions and SG&A. 
3.3.5. Dumping margins 
(243) For the exporting producers, the Commission compared the weighted average normal value of each type of the like 
product with the weighted average export price of the corresponding type of the product concerned, in accordance 
with Article 2(11) and (12) of the basic Regulation. 
(244) On this basis, the provisional dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty 
unpaid, are as follows:                                                              
Company 
Provisional dumping margin 
Yieh United Steel Co. and 
Tang Eng Iron Works Co. Ltd. 
6,0 % 
Walsin Lihwa Co. 
7,5 % 
All other companies 
7,5 %   
(245) The level of cooperation in this case was considered high and no other exporting producers could be identified. 
Consequently, the Commission considered it representative to set the residual dumping margin at the level of the 
exporting producer with the highest dumping margin. 
4. INJURY 
4.1. Definition of the Union industry and Union production 
(246) The like product was manufactured by five known (groups of) producers in the Union during the investigation 
period. They constitute the ‘Union industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. 
(247) The total Union production during the investigation period was established at around 4,6 million tonnes, including 
production for the captive market. The Commission established this figure on the basis of all the available 
information concerning the Union industry, namely the verified questionnaire reply received from Eurofer, where 
possible cross-checked with the verified questionnaire replies of the sampled Union producers. 
(248) As indicated in recital (7), three Union producers were selected in the sample, representing over 78 % of total Union 
production of the like product. They are all vertically-integrated producers. 
4.2. Determination of the relevant Union market 
(249) To establish whether the Union industry suffered injury and to determine consumption and the various economic 
indicators related to the situation of the Union industry, the Commission examined whether and to what extent the 
subsequent use of the Union industry’s production of the like product had to be taken into account in the analysis. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/35   

(250) The Union industry is vertically integrated and SSHR is regarded as an intermediate material for the production of 
various value added downstream products, namely cold rolled products. The Commission found that a substantial 
part of the total Union producers’ production was destined for captive use. 
(251) The distinction between captive and free market is most relevant for the injury analysis because products destined for 
captive use are not exposed to direct competition from imports, as they are sold within the same company or groups 
of companies on the basis of transfer prices set according to internal price policies thus not directly linked to prices 
on the free market. 
(252) By contrast, production destined for free market sales is in direct competition with imports of the product 
concerned, and is sold at free market prices. 
(253) To provide a picture of the Union industry that is as complete as possible, the Commission requested data for the 
entire activity of SSHR and verified whether the production was destined for captive use or for the free market. 
(254) The Commission examined certain economic indicators relating to the Union industry on the basis of data for the 
free market only. These indicators are: sales volume and sales prices on the Union market; market share; export 
volume and prices; and profitability. Where possible and appropriate, the findings of the examination were 
compared with data for the captive market in order to provide a complete picture of the situation of the Union 
industry. 
(255) However, other economic indicators could meaningfully be examined only by referring to the whole SSHR activity, 
including the captive use of the Union industry. These are: production; capacity and capacity utilisation; 
investments; stocks; employment; productivity; and wages. This is because they depend on the whole production 
activity, whether SSHR is kept for captive use or sold on the free market. 
4.3. Union consumption 
4.3.1. Free market consumption on the Union market 
(256) The Commission established Union consumption on the basis of: (a) Eurofer data concerning Union industry’s sales 
of the like product to unrelated customers in the Union, whether direct or indirect sales, cross-checked with the 
sampled Union producers; and (b) imports of the product under investigation into the Union from all third 
countries as reported in Eurostat. 
(257) The Union consumption on the free market over the period considered developed as follows: 
Table 2 
Free consumption on the Union market (tonnes)  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Free Union consumption 
1 221 444 
1 213 398 
1 205 651 
1 219 231 
Index 
100 
99 
99 
100 
Source: Eurofer, sampled Union producers and Eurostat.   
(258) During the period considered, Union consumption remained stable. 
4.3.2. Captive consumption on the Union market 
(259) The Commission established the Union captive consumption on the basis of the captive use of all known producers 
in the Union. On this basis, the Union captive consumption over the period considered developed as follows: 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/36                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

Table 3 
Captive consumption on the Union market (tonnes)  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Captive Union consumption 
3 627 275 
3 741 880 
3 703 555 
3 607 752 
Index 
100 
103 
102 
99 
Source: Eurofer.   
(260) Captive consumption on the Union market remained rather stable with some minor fluctuations over the period 
considered, and decreased by less than 1 % in the investigation period. 
4.3.3. Overall consumption 
(261) By merging the two previous tables, the overall consumption – thus totalling the captive and free market 
consumption – evolved as follows during the period considered: 
Table 4 
Overall consumption (captive and free market) (tonnes)  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Overall Union consumption 
4 848 718 
4 955 278 
4 909 206 
4 826 983 
Index 
100 
102 
101 
100 
Source: Eurofer, sampled Union producers and Eurostat.   
(262) The above table shows that overall consumption followed the same trend as observed in free market consumption 
and in captive consumption, thus remaining stable over the period considered. Overall consumption was also in 
line with total Union production (see table 7). 
4.4. Imports from the countries concerned 
4.4.1. Cumulative assessment of the effects of imports from the countries concerned 
(263) The Commission examined whether imports of SSHR originating in the countries concerned should be assessed 
cumulatively, in accordance with Article 3(4) of the basic Regulation. 
(264) That provision stipulates that the imports from more than one country shall be cumulatively assessed only if it is 
determined that: 
(a) the margin of dumping established in relation to the imports from each country is more than de minimis as 
defined in Article 9(3), and the volume of imports from each country is not negligible; and 
(b) a cumulative assessment of the effects of the imports is appropriate in light of the conditions of competition 
between imported products and the like Union product. 
(265) The margins of dumping established in relation to the imports from each of the three countries concerned are 
summarised under recitals (91), (218) and (241). They are all above the de minimis threshold laid down in Article 9 
(3) of the basic Regulation. 
(266) The volume of imports from each of the three countries concerned was not negligible. Imports market shares in 
comparison with free market consumption in the investigation period were 18,3 % for the PRC, 9,1 % for Indonesia 
and 3,0 % for Taiwan. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/37   

(267) The condition of competition between the dumped imports from each of the three countries concerned, and 
between them and the Union like product were similar. Indeed, SSHR originating in Indonesia, the PRC and Taiwan 
competed with each other when imported for sale on the Union market, and with the like product produced by the 
Union industry, as all of them are sold to similar categories of customers. 
(268) In its submission at initiation, STSS claimed that imports from the PRC should not be cumulated in view of their 
different development in terms of volume and prices. It claimed that imports from the PRC decreased gradually over 
the period considered while prices increased, particularly in 2017. 
(269) While it is true that Chinese imports prices increased over the period considered, they were at levels well below the 
Union industry’s sales prices throughout the period considered. Chinese import volumes also increased 
significantly, and their market share was above 16 % throughout the whole period. The investigation has shown 
that imports from the countries concerned compete with each other in the light of Article 3(4)(b) of the basic 
Regulation. The import volumes from the PRC decreased from 2017 until the investigation period (see table 5: from 
index 135 in 2017 to 129 in 2018 to 114 in the investigation period). At the same time, import volumes from 
Indonesia sharply increased (from index 16 to 42 726 to 106 202). In absolute figures, the volume increase from 
Indonesia was greater than the decrease from the PRC from 2017 until the investigation period. Import volumes 
from Taiwan increased steadily from 2017 to 2018 but then fell in the investigation period (from index 137 to 173 
to 128). Overall, imports from the countries concerned taken together continuously increased over the period 
considered (from index 100 in 2016 over 136 in 2017 and 156 in 2018 to 166 in the investigation period). 
(270) Therefore, and contrary to the claim by STSS, all criteria set out in Article 3(4) of the basic Regulation were met and 
imports from the countries concerned were examined cumulatively for the purposes of injury determination. 
4.4.2. Volume and market share of imports from the countries concerned 
(271) The Commission established the volume of imports on the basis of Eurostat data. The market share of imports was 
established by comparing the volume of imports with the Union free market consumption. 
(272) Imports into the Union from the countries concerned developed as follows: 
Table 5 
Import volumes (tonnes) and market share  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
PRC 
194 962 
263 858 
250 633 
222 802 
Index 
100 
135 
129 
114 
Market share 
16,0 % 
21,7 % 
20,8 % 
18,3 % 
Index 
100 
136 
130 
114 
Indonesia 
105 
17 
44 863 
111 512 
Index 
100 
16 
42 726 
106 202 
Market share 
0,0 % (1) 
0,0 % (2) 
3,7 % 
9,1 % 
Index 
100 
100 (3) 
43 286 
106 395 
Taiwan 
28 992 
39 739 
50 058 
36 910 
Index 
100 
137 
173 
127 
Market share 
2,4 % 
3,3 % 
4,2 % 
3,0 % 
Index 
100 
138 
175 
128 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/38                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Total countries concerned 
224 059 
303 613 
345 554 
371 224 
Index 
100 
136 
154 
166 
Market share 
18,3 % 
25,0 % 
28,7 % 
30,4 % 
Index 
100 
136 
156 
166 
Source: Eurostat. 
(1) The precise market share was 0,0086 % in 2016. 
(2) The precise market share was 0,0014 % in 2017. 
(3) Considering the precise market share in 2017 (see footnote 2 above), the index is at 16 in that year.   
(273) Imports from the countries concerned increased by 66 % over the period considered, reaching over 30 % of the 
Union free market consumption in the investigation period. 
4.4.3. Prices of the imports from the countries concerned and price undercutting 
(274) The Commission established the prices of imports on the basis of Eurostat data. The weighted average price of 
imports into the Union from the countries concerned developed as follows: 
Table 6 
Prices of the imports from the countries concerned (EUR/tonne)  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
PRC 
1 503 
1 827 
1 826 
1 820 
Index 
100 
122 
121 
121 
Indonesia 
2 203 
2 152 
1 688 
1 645 
Index 
100 
98 
77 
75 
Taiwan 
1 550 
1 813 
1 954 
1 943 
Index 
100 
117 
126 
125 
Total countries concerned 
1 510 
1 826 
1 827 
1 780 
Index 
100 
121 
121 
118 
Source: Eurostat.   
(275) Whereas import prices from the PRC and Taiwan increased by 21 % and 25 % respectively, however, import prices 
from Indonesia fell significantly by 25 % over the period considered (import prices from the countries concerned 
increased on average by 18 %).. Despite the overall increase, import prices from the countries concerned remain 
constantly lower than Union industry prices over the same period (see Table 11). 
(276) The Commission determined price undercutting during the investigation period by comparing: 
(a) the weighted average sales prices per product type of the three sampled Union producers charged to unrelated 
customers on the Union free market, adjusted to an ex-works level; and 
(b) the corresponding weighted average prices per product type of imports from the cooperating exporting 
producers in the countries concerned to the first independent customer on the Union market (84), established on 
a cost, insurance, freight (CIF) basis, with appropriate adjustments for post-importation costs. 
(84) The vast majority of sales were sales made directly to independent end-customers. Sales to wholesalers represented [1 to 5 %] of the 
total sales of the countries concerned (whereas the rest were made to end-users). [95 to 100 %] of the sales made by the Chinese, 
Indonesian, and Taiwanese exporting producers were made directly into the Union (the rest being made via related importers). The 
sampled Union producers also sell predominantly directly to independent end-customers, including re-rollers and tube-makers, 
representing [80 to 85 %] of their total sales in the Union. Whereas [10 to 15 %] of their total sales in the Union are to wholesalers. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/39   

(277) The price comparison was made on a type-by-type basis for transactions at the same level of trade, duly adjusted 
where necessary, and after deduction of rebates and discounts. The result of the comparison was expressed as a 
percentage of the sampled Union producers’ turnover during the investigation period. It showed a weighted average 
undercutting margin of 10,7 % for imports from Indonesia, 9,3 % for imports from the PRC and 4,1 % for imports 
from Taiwan. 
4.5. Economic situation of the Union industry 
4.5.1. General remarks 
(278) In accordance with Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation, the examination of the impact of the dumped imports on the 
Union industry included an evaluation of all economic indicators having a bearing on the state of the Union industry 
during the period considered. 
(279) As mentioned in recital (7), sampling was used for the determination of possible injury suffered by the Union 
industry. 
(280) For the injury determination, the Commission distinguished between macroeconomic and microeconomic injury 
indicators. The Commission evaluated the macroeconomic indicators on the basis of data from the questionnaire 
reply of Eurofer, which was duly verified, relating to all Union producers. The Commission evaluated the 
microeconomic indicators on the basis of data contained in the questionnaire replies of the three sampled Union 
producers, which were duly verified. Both sets of data were found to be representative of the economic situation of 
the Union industry. 
(281) The macroeconomic indicators are: production, production capacity, capacity utilisation, sales volume, market 
share, stocks, employment, productivity and magnitude of the dumping margin. 
(282) The microeconomic indicators are: average unit prices, unit cost, labour costs, profitability, cash flow, investments 
and return on investments. 
4.5.2. Macroeconomic indicators 
4.5.2.1. Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
(283) The total Union production, production capacity and capacity utilisation over the period considered developed as 
follows: 
Table 7 
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Total Union production (tonnes) 
4 786 053 
4 807 793 
4 768 710 
4 636 995 
Index 
100 
100 
100 
97 
Production capacity (tonnes) 
6 967 785 
6 937 585 
7 025 230 
7 057 282 
Index 
100 
100 
101 
101 
Capacity utilisation 
69 % 
69 % 
68 % 
66 % 
Index 
100 
101 
99 
96 
Source: Eurofer.   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/40                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(284) The Union industry’s production volume was stable until 2018 then decreased by 3 % in the investigation period. 
The reported capacity figures refer to actual capacity, which implies that adjustments considered as standard by the 
industry – for set-up time, maintenance, bottle necks and other normal stoppages – have been taken into account. 
On this basis, production capacity remained practically stable, with a marginal increase by 1 % over the period 
considered. 
(285) As a result of decreased production and slightly increased capacity, capacity utilisation decreased by 4 % over the 
period considered, and was constantly below 70 %. 
4.5.2.2. Sales volume and market share 
(286) The Union industry’s sales volume and market share on the free market developed over the period considered as 
follows: 
Table 8 
Free sales volume and market share  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Union industry free sales volumes 
(tonnes) 
869 660 
775 692 
735 596 
754 334 
Index 
100 
89 
85 
87 
Market share on free Union consump­
tion 
71,2 % 
63,9 % 
61,0 % 
61,9 % 
Index 
100 
90 
86 
87 
Source: Eurofer and Eurostat.   
(287) The Union industry’s sales volume on the free market fell by 13 % over the period concerned. 
(288) The market share of the Union industry also fell significantly, by nearly 10 percentage points, even though 
consumption in the Union remained stable over the period considered. 
(289) As far as the captive market is concerned, captive volume and market share on the Union market developed over the 
period considered as follows: 
Table 9 
Captive volume and market share (tonnes)  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Captive volume on the Union market 
3 627 275 
3 741 880 
3 703 555 
3 607 752 
Index 
100 
103 
102 
99 
Total production of Union industry 
4 786 053 
4 807 793 
4 768 710 
4 636 995 
Index 
100 
100 
100 
97 
Share of captive market over total Un­
ion production 
75,8 % 
77,8 % 
77,7 % 
77,8 % 
Index 
100 
103 
102 
103 
Source: Eurofer.   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/41   

(290) The captive volume of the Union industry (composed of SSHR kept by the Union industry for downstream use) on 
the Union market remained stable at around 3,6 million tonnes during the period considered. 
(291) The Union industry’s captive market share (expressed as a percentage of total Union production) increased slighlty in 
2017 then remained stable at around 78 % over the rest of the period. 
(292) Therefore, in view of the stable trend of the Union captive market over the period considered, the decline in Union 
industry’s sales was the result of increased pressure exerted by imports from the countries concerned. 
4.5.2.3. Growth 
(293) The above figures in respect of production, sales volume and market share, which all show a decreasing trend over 
the period considered, demonstrate that the Union industry was not able to grow, either in absolute terms or in 
relation to consumption. 
4.5.2.4. Employment and productivity 
(294) Employment and productivity over the period considered developed as follows: 
Table 10 
Employment and productivity  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Number of employees 
2 274 
2 266 
2 303 
2 372 
Index 
100 
100 
101 
104 
Productivity (tonnes per staff) 
2 104 
2 122 
2 070 
1 955 
Index 
100 
101 
98 
93 
Source: Eurofer.   
(295) The level of Union industry employment related to the production of SSHR increased marginally by 4 % over the 
period considered. In view of the slight decrease in production, productivity of the Union industry’s workforce, 
measured as tonnes per employee produced per year, decreased significantly over the period considered. 
4.5.2.5. Magnitude of the dumping margin 
(296) All dumping margins were significantly above the de minimis level. The impact of the magnitude of the actual 
margins of dumping on the Union industry was substantial, given the volume and prices of imports from the 
countries concerned. 
4.5.3. Microeconomic indicators 
4.5.3.1. Prices and factors affecting prices 
(297) The weighted average unit sales prices of the sampled Union producers to unrelated customers in the Union 
developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 11 
Sales prices in the Union  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Average unit sales price on the free 
market (EUR/tonne) 
1 699 
2 019 
2 072 
1 991 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/42                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Index 
100 
119 
122 
117 
Unit cost of production (EUR/tonne) 
1 581 
1 795 
1 929 
1 894 
Index 
100 
114 
122 
120 
Source: Sampled Union producers.   
(298) Average unit sales prices increased by 17 % over the period considered, which was not sufficient to keep up with the 
development of cost of production that increased by 20 % over the same period. To a large extent the cost evolution 
was driven by important raw material price increases, such as for nickel, molybdenum and chromium. Whereas 
between 2016 and 2018 the Union industry was able to pass on this cost increase in relative terms to its sales 
prices, in the investigation period it was not able to fully pass on the cost increase, as the increase in cost was 
greater than the increase in prices. 
4.5.3.2. Labour costs 
(299) The average labour costs of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 12 
Average labour costs per employee  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Average labour costs per employee 
(EUR) 
62 423 
61 712 
60 037 
61 534 
Index 
100 
99 
96 
99 
Source: Sampled Union producers.   
(300) The average labour costs per employee of the sampled Union producers fell by 4 % until 2018, then increased again 
in the investigation period, though to a level that is still 1 % below the level in 2016. This shows that Union 
producers were able to lower labour costs, in spite of the deteriorating market circumstances. 
4.5.3.3. Inventories 
(301) Stock levels of the Union industry developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 13 
Inventories  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Closing stocks (tonnes) 
147 341 
152 089 
147 018 
118 543 
Index 
100 
103 
100 
80 
Closing stocks as a percentage of pro­
duction 
3,1 % 
3,2 % 
3,1 % 
2,6 % 
Index 
100 
103 
100 
83 
Source: Eurofer.   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/43   

(302) During the period considered the level of closing stocks decreased by 20 %. Most types of the like product are 
produced by the Union industry based on specific orders of the users. Therefore, stocks are not considered to be an 
important injury indicator for this industry. This is also confirmed by analysing the evolution of the closing stocks 
as a percentage of production. As can be seen above, this indicator remained relatively stable over the period 
considered at around 3 % of the production volume. 
4.5.3.4. Profitability, cash f low, investments and return on investments   
Table 14 
Profitability, cash flow, investments, return on investments  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Profitability of sales in the Union to 
unrelated customers (% of sales turn­
over) 
7,2 % 
10,2 % 
5,1 % 
3,5 % 
Index 
100 
142 
71 
49 
Cash flow (EUR) 
20 214 740 
48 032 998 
25 074 879 
- 18 363 974 
Index 
100 
238 
124 
-91 
Investments (EUR) 
29 376 840 
47 908 280 
48 154 124 
46 211 563 
Index 
100 
163 
164 
157 
Return on investments 
4,8 % 
8,5 % 
3,1 % 
0,2 % 
Index 
100 
179 
65 
4 
Source: Sampled Union producers.   
(303) The Commission established the profitability of the Union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales 
of the like product to unrelated customers in the Union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. 
(304) Overall profitability fell from 7,2 % in 2016 to 3,5 % in the investigation period. This drop coincides with the 
increase of import volumes from the countries concerned at undercutting prices (see recital (276)). Return on 
investments followed the same downward trend. 
(305) Net cash flow evolved to a large extent in line with profitability and return on investments. It was positive from 
2016 to 2018, with the peak in 2017, and turned negative in the investigation period, when profitability was at the 
lowest point in the period considered. 
(306) The level of yearly investments increased over the period considered by 57 %. However, the increased investment 
levels did not translate into corresponding capacity increases (see table 7). Subsequently, the investments merely 
aimed at retaining the existing capacities and making due replacements of necessary production assets. 
4.5.4. Conclusion on injury 
(307) Consumption was stable over the period considered. However, the market share of Union producers decreased from 
71,2 % to 61,9 %. 
(308) The financial indicators of the sample of Union producers show that the Union industry’s cost of production 
increased (+ 20 %) slightly more than its average sales price (+ 17 %), which meant that the Union industry could 
not fully pass on the cost increase. This resulted in a significant fall in profit over the period considered, from 7,2 % 
in 2016 to 3,5 % in the investigation period. A similar negative development is noted in relation to the other 
financial indicators, return on investment and cash flow. 
(309) The Union industry’s sales volume decreased by 13 % and production volume by 3 % over the period considered. 
The gap is explained by the importance for the Union industry of the captive market, which however did not grow 
over the period considered. Capacity utilisation was constantly below 70 % and went down by three percentage 
points over the period considered (66 % in the investigation period). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/44                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(310) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded at this stage that the Union industry suffered material injury 
within the meaning of Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation. 
5. CAUSATION 
(311) In accordance with Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the dumped imports 
from the countries concerned caused material injury to the Union industry. In accordance with Article 3(7) of the 
basic Regulation, the Commission also examined whether other known factors could, at the same time, have injured 
the Union industry. The Commission ensured that any possible injury caused by factors other than the dumped 
imports from the countries concerned was not attributed to the dumped imports. inter alia, these factors are: 
imports from third countries, the export performance of the Union industry, increase in costs of production, 
decrease in Union demand for SSHR in 2018 and the partial reliance by Union producers on captive production. 
5.1. Effects of the dumped imports 
(312) Prices of imports from all three countries concerned undercut the Union industry’s prices, resulting in undercutting 
margins of 4,1 % for Taiwan, 9,3 % for the PRC and 10,7 % for Indonesia (9,5 % on average) in the investigation 
period. The Union industry was therefore unable to account for the increase in cost of production in its Union sales 
prices, which demonstrates the price pressure exerted by the imports concerned. This situation had a serious impact 
on Union industry’s profitability, which went down to very low levels in the investigation period. 
5.2. Effects of other factors 
5.2.1. Imports from third countries 
(313) The volume and prices of imports from other third countries developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 15                                                              
Country  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Republic of Korea 
Volume (tonnes) 
64 995 
32 949 
35 535 
33 191 
Index 
100 
51 
55 
51 
Market share 
5,3 % 
2,7 % 
2,9 % 
2,7 % 
Index 
100 
51 
55 
51 
Average price 
(EUR/tonne) 
1 404 
1 697 
1 695 
1 654 
Index 
100 
121 
121 
118 
South Africa 
Volume (tonnes) 
25 803 
29 123 
25 923 
27 494 
Index 
100 
113 
100 
107 
Market share 
2,1 % 
2,4 % 
2,2 % 
2,3 % 
Index 
100 
114 
102 
107 
Average price 
(EUR/tonne) 
1 436 
1 649 
1 671 
1 728 
Index 
100 
115 
116 
120 
Other third countries 
Volume (tonnes) 
36 926 
72 022 
63 043 
32 989 
Index 
100 
195 
171 
89 
Market share 
3,0 % 
5,9 % 
5,2 % 
2,7 %  
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/45   

Country  
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP  
Index 
100 
196 
173 
89 
Average price 
(EUR/tonne) 
1 837 
1 931 
2 084 
2 302 
Index 
100 
105 
113 
125 
Total of all third countries ex­
cept the countries concerned 
Volume (tonnes) 
127 725 
134 093 
124 501 
93 674 
Index 
100 
105 
97 
73 
Market share 
10,5 % 
11,1 % 
10,3 % 
7,7 % 
Index 
100 
106 
99 
73 
Average price 
(EUR/tonne) 
1 536 
1 813 
1 887 
1 904 
Index 
100 
118 
123 
124 
Source: Eurostat.   
(314) During the period considered, the market share of imports from third countries declined by 27 % (or by close to 3 
percentage points) to 7,7 % in the investigation period. Since during the same period, the countries concerned 
increased their market share by 66 % (see recital (273) and table 5), the loss of market share by the Union industry 
is attributed to the steep increase in market share from the countries concerned. 
(315) Imports volume from Korea decreased strongly over the period considered, and their market share almost halved, 
falling to only 2,7 % during the investigation period Average prices of imports from Korea increased by 18 % over 
the period considered, slightly less than the total of all third countries except the countries concerned (24 %). 
Imports from South Africa were stable over the period considered but sold at higher prices than the ones from the 
countries concerned, and they never reached a market share of more than 2,5 %. 
(316) The Commission therefore provisionally concluded that imports from other countries have not contributed to the 
injury suffered by the Union industry. 
5.2.2. Export performance of the Union industry 
(317) The volumes and prices of exports of the Union industry developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 16                                                               
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Export volume (tonnes) 
125 237 
151 305 
156 620 
141 448 
Index 
100 
121 
125 
113 
Average price (EUR/tonne) 
1 745 
1 909 
1 940 
1 992 
Index 
100 
109 
111 
114 
Source: Sampled Union producers, Eurofer.   
(318) The Union industry was able to increase its export volume by 13 % over the period considered. The additional 
export sales of around 16 000 tonnes in the investigation period, as compared to the beginning of the period 
considered, pales compared to the loss of 115 000 tonnes of sales in the Union market during the same period. In 
addition, Union producers could increase their export unit prices by 14 % over the same period. The export sales of 
the industry could thus only for a very small part compensate the negative developments both in terms of volumes 
and prices on the Union market. However, on that basis and contrary to the claim by one interested party, the 
export performance of the Union industry was positive and could not contribute to the injury suffered by the 
Union industry. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/46                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

5.2.3. Other factors 
(319) Cost of production per tonne of SSHR produced increased by 20 % over the period considered (see table 11). This 
was mainly due to a strong increase in raw material costs, a factor that has impacted on producers worldwide. In 
particular, the price of nickel, being the second most important input for several Union producers, increased from 
less than USD 9 000 in early 2016 to over USD 15 000 in mid-2018 and to still more than USD 12 500 in June 
2019. The Union industry was initially also able to pass on this cost increase in its sales prices, however that 
resulted in an important loss of market share and profitability. In the investigation period, this was not possible 
anymore due to the price pressure exerted by the dumped imports. As a result, profitability decreased dramatically, 
that is by 51 % over the period considered. 
(320) Several parties claimed that the deterioration affecting the Union industry in the second half of 2018 was in fact due 
to a decrease in demand; this decrease was, in turn, caused by the imminent imposition of safeguard measures, which 
resulted in purchases being concentrated in the first half of the year, and to cyclical developments in the global steel 
market in the second half of the year. Contrary to these claims, the investigation did not reveal any decrease in 
consumption on the Union market but rather a sharp loss of market share by the Union industry due to a strong 
increase in imports (see section 4.4.2 and tables 5 and 8). The Commisison was also not able to link the decrease to 
the safeguard measures. The claim was thus rejected. 
(321) Several parties claimed that the Union industry would not, or to a lesser extent, be interested in selling the product 
concerned on the free market as it would prioritize captive production. Even though the downstream market is 
important to the Union industry, it is also selling significant volumes of the product concerned on the free market 
and has still significant spare capacity to produce and thus sell more. In addition, the Union captive market has not 
grown over the period considered. For these reasons, the claim was rejected. 
(322) One interested party claimed that overcapacity in the Union was a cause of injury to the Union industry. However, 
the investigation confirmed that Union industry’s total production capacity remained stable (+ 1 %) during the 
period considered, contrary to the PRC and Indonesia, which have been building up significant overcapacities in 
order to export the output resulting from these excess capacities to the Union, thus taking up market shares from 
the Union producers. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(323) One interested party claimed that, since the Union industry (and the steel sector globally) performed exceptionally 
well in 2017, particularly as regards profits, the decrease in 2018 was in fact a natural consequence. However, the 
investigation provisionally found a significant deterioration in certain injury indicators from the beginning to the 
end of the period considered, meaning that the starting point was 2016 and not 2017. Indeed, as compared to 
2016, profitability halved and both sales volumes of the Union industry on the Union market and their market 
share fell by 13 %. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(324) Two interested parties claimed that the additional costs borne by the Union producers of the like product in order to 
meet the strict EU standards in terms of environment makes them less competitive on the Union market. On this 
claim, the Commission considers that the high environmental standards in the Union cannot be considered as a 
self-inflicting cause of injury. To the contrary, the high environmental EU standards are taken into account in the 
calculation of the target price. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(325) One interested party claimed that both Union industry prices and the prices of Chinese imports have increased, 
therefore Chinese imports cannot be a cause of injury. However, the prices of the Chinese imports constantly 
remained significantly below the average Union industry prices and also undercut the Union prices during the 
investigation period. In addition, as regards volumes, there was a significant increase in imports from the PRC over 
the period considered which added to price pressure. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
5.3. Conclusion on causation 
(326) In light of the above consideration, the Commission provisionally established a causal link between the injury 
suffered by the Union industry and the dumped imports from the countries concerned. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/47   

(327) The Commission distinguished and separated the effects of all known factors on the situation of the Union industry 
from the injurious effects of the dumped imports. All other identified factors, in particular imports from third 
countries, export performance of the Union industry, increase in costs of production, decrease in demand for SSHR 
in 2018, the partial reliance by Union producers on captive production, overcapacity in the Union as a result of 
global overcapacity, the exceptionally favourable market circumstances in 2017, the additional environmental costs 
borne by Union producers and the increase in import prices from the PRC were provisionally not found to 
attenuate the causal link, even considering their possible combined effect. 
6. LEVEL OF MEASURES 
(328) To determine the level of the measures, the Commission examined whether a duty lower than the margin of 
dumping would be sufficient to remove the injury caused by dumped imports to the Union industry. 
(329) In the present case, the complainants claimed the existence of raw material distortions within the meaning of Article 
7(2a) of the basic Regulation with regard to two of the countries under investigation, namely Indonesia and the PRC. 
The assessment concerning these countries is included in section 6.2 below. 
6.1. Examination of the margin adequate to remove the injury to the Union industry for Taiwan 
(330) The Commission first established the amount of duty necessary to eliminate the injury suffered by the Union 
industry in the absence of distortions in the sense of Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation. In this case, the injury 
would be eliminated if the Union industry was able to cover its costs of production, including those costs resulting 
from Multilateral Environmental Agreements, and protocols thereunder, to which the Union is a party, and of ILO 
Conventions listed in Annex Ia of the basic Regulation, and to obtain a reasonable profit (‘target profit’). 
(331) In accordance with Article 7(2c) of the basic Regulation, for establishing the target profit, the Commission took into 
account the following factors: the level of profitability before the increase of imports from the country under 
investigation, the level of profitability needed to cover full costs and investments, research and development (R&D) 
and innovation, and the level of profitability to be expected under normal conditions of competition. The Union 
industry claimed that 2017 was a suitable year for establishing a target profit. The Commission considers that 2017 
was an exceptionally good year for the industry and that the profit achieved by the sampled Union producers in that 
year (10,2 %) is thus likely to be tainted if used as a target profit. Moreover, the market share of imports in 2017 was 
already 29,1 %. By contrast, in 2016 the market share of imports was considerably lower than in 2017 (21,5 %). In 
the absence of any other information, the Commission decided to provisionally use the average profit achieved over 
the years 2016 and 2017 as target profit. That profit is 8,7 %. 
(332) In accordance with Article 7(2c) of the basic Regulation, the Commission assessed a claim made by one Union 
producer on planned investments which were not implemented during the period considered. Based on the 
documentary evidence received, the Commission provisionally accepted that claim and added the corresponding 
amount to the non-injurious price of that Union producer. 
(333) In accordance with Article 7(2d) of the basic Regulation, the Commission assessed the future costs resulting from 
Multilateral Environmental Agreements, and protocols thereunder, to which the Union is a party, that the Union 
industry will incur during the period of application of the measure pursuant to Article 11(2). Based on the evidence 
available, the Commission established an additional cost in a range between EUR 1,5 and 6 per tonne, which was 
added to the non-injurious price. 
(334) On this basis, the Commission calculated a non-injurious price of the like product for the Union industry by adding 
the above-mentioned profit margin of 8,7 % and the adjustments under Article 7(2c) and 7(2d) to the cost of 
production of the sampled Union producers during the investigation period. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/48                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(335) The Commission then determined the injury elimination level on the basis of a comparison of the weighted average 
import price, as established for the verified cooperating exporting producers in the countries concerned on a type- 
by-type basis, as established for the price undercutting calculations, with the weighted average non-injurious prices 
of the same product types sold by the sampled Union producers on the Union free market during the investigation 
period. Any difference resulting from this comparison was expressed as a percentage of the weighted average 
import CIF value. 
(336) The result of these calculations is shown in the table below.                                                              
Country 
Company 
Dumping margin (%) 
Underselling margin (%) 
Taiwan 
Yieh United Steel Co. and 
Tang Eng Iron Works Co. Ltd. 
6,0 
24,1 
Taiwan 
Walsin Lihwa Co. 
7,5 
18,3 
Taiwan 
All other companies 
7,5 
24,1   
6.2. Examination of the margin adequate to remove the injury to the Union industry for Indonesia and the 
PRC 
6.2.1. Comparison between dumping margin and underselling margin 
(337) In accordance with Article 7(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission first examined in relation to Indonesia and 
the PRC whether the margin of dumping provisionally established would be higher than the margin adequate to 
remove the injury to the Union industry. To this effect, a comparison between the weighted average import price of 
the cooperating exporting producers in Indonesia and the PRC with the target price of the Union industry as 
explained in Section 6.1 above, was made. The result of these calculations is shown in the table below:                                                              
Country 
Company 
Dumping margin (%) 
Underselling margin (%) 
Indonesia 
PT Indonesia Guang Ching Nickel and Stain­
less Steel Industry 
PT Indonesia Tsingshan Stainless Steel 
19,2 
17,0 
PRC 
Shanxi Taigang Stainless Steel Co., Ltd 
108,4 
18,9 
PRC 
Fujian Fuxin Special Steel Co., Ltd 
55,6 
14,5 
PRC 
Xiangshui Defeng Metals Co., Ltd 
87,9 
17,4 
PRC 
Fujian Dingxin Technology Co., Ltd. 
87,9 
17,4 
PRC 
All other companies 
108,4 
18,9   
(338) Since the underselling margin calculated for the Indonesian and the Chinese exporting producers was lower than the 
dumping margin, the Commission assessed whether there are distortions on raw materials with regard to the 
product concerned, pursuant to Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation. 
6.2.2. Raw material distortions 
(339) The complainant provided sufficient evidence in the complaint that there are raw material distortions within the 
meaning of Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation with regard to the product concerned in Indonesia and the PRC. 
Thus, as announced in the Notice of Initiation, when assessing the appropriate level of measures in relation to 
Indonesia and the PRC, the Commission examined the alleged distortions and any other distortions in Indonesia 
and the PRC covered by Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/49   

(340) The raw materials claimed to be affected by such distortions were nickel (ferronickel, nickel pig iron, nickel ore, scrap 
nickel), coal, and stainless steel scrap in Indonesia and stainless steel scrap, chromium, coking coal, ferrochromium, 
ferrosilicon, crude (stainless) steel, and vanadium in the PRC. 
(341) Out of these raw materials, the Commission identified the main raw materials used in the production of the product 
concerned by each of the sampled exporting producers. The Commission considered as main raw materials those 
which represent at least 17 % of the cost of production of the product concerned. 
(a) Indonesia 
(342) With regard to Indonesia, the investigation confirmed that distortions within the meaning of Article 7(2a) of the 
basic Regulation existed on raw materials during the investigation period in the form of an export ban (85) on nickel 
ore with a nickel content of 1,7 % and more, an export tax (86) of 10 % on nickel ore with a nickel content of less 
than 1,7 %, a licensing requirement (87) and a de facto export quota (88) on nickel ore with the latter nickel content, 
and a de facto licensing requirement (89) on ferronickel and nickel pig iron. 
(343) The investigation, further, established that nickel ore represented more than 17 % of the total costs of production of 
the product under investigation. 
(344) Finally, the investigation concluded that the price paid for nickel ore was significantly lower (by more than 30 %) 
than the price in the representative international market, in line with Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation. 
(345) In this respect, the Commission compared the purchase price of the Indonesian exporting producers to the FOB 
price of nickel ore with a nickel content of 1,8 % in the Philippines (90). The Commission considered the price in the 
Philippines suitable as the Philippines, similarly to Indonesia, belong to the countries with the world’s highest 
reserves of nickel ore (91). Moreover, the nickel content of the nickel ore in this representative international market 
was very similar to the average nickel content of nickel ore purchased by the Indonesian exporting producers. 
Finally, the Commission considered that the transport costs between the supplier and the port included in the FOB 
price reflected the transport costs incurred by the Indonesian exporting producers. 
(346) Therefore, the requisite under Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation, namely the existence of distortion(s) on a raw 
material accounting for more than 17 % of the cost of production of the product concerned, was met with regard 
to Indonesia. 
(b) The PRC 
(347) With regard to the PRC, the investigation confirmed that distortions within the meaning of Article 7(2a) of the basic 
Regulation existed on raw materials during the investigation period in the form of an export tax on stainless steel 
scrap, ferrosilicon, nickel pig iron and ferrochromium; and a licensing requirement on ferrosilicon, vanadium, 
ferronickel and ferrochromium. The Commission based this finding on the data available in the OECD database (92) 
and on the relevant legislation applicable in the PRC. 
(348) The investigation further established that, for each of the sampled companies, at least one of the above main raw 
materials represented more than 17 % of their total cost of production of the product under investigation (93). 
(85) Article 4 and Annex IV of Regulation of the Minister of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia No 1/M-DAG/PER/1/2017. 
(86) Articles 2, 12 and 14, and Annexes I(G) and II(G) of Regulation of the Minister of Finance of the Repulic of Indonesia No 
13/PMK.010/2017. 
(87) Article 7(3) and Annex III of Regulation of the Minister of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia No 1/M-DAG/PER/1/2017. 
(88) Article 4 and Annex III of Regulation of the Minister of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia No 1/M-DAG/PER/1/2017. 
(89) Article 7(1) and Annex I of Regulation of the Minister of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia No 1/M-DAG/PER/1/2017. 
(90) As reported by FerroAlloyNet, available at: https://www.ferroalloynet.com/ (last viewed 10 March 2020). 
(91) International Nickel Study Group. The World Nickel Factbook 2018, p. 7 available at https://insg.org/wp-content/upload­
s/2019/03/publist_The-World-Nickel-Factbook-2018.pdf (last viewed 10 March 2020). 
(92) OECD Inventory on export restrictions on Industrial Raw Materials available at https://qdd.oecd.org/subject.aspx?Subject=ExportRes­
trictions_IndustrialRawMaterials (last viewed 6 March 2020). 
(93) As the exact quantity of production materials is considered business confidential, those raw materials that constitute more than 17 % 
of the cost of production of the product concerned and the undistorted price of the raw materials as established in representative 
international markets are provided to the sampled Chinese companies in an individual specific disclosure. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/50                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(349) The investigation concluded that the price paid by the two sampled Chinese exporting producers in the PRC for 
these main raw materials was significantly lower than the price in the representative international market used for 
each respective raw material, for which the same sources were used as for the construction of the normal value in 
accordance with Article 2 (6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. 
(350) Therefore, the requisite under Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation, namely the existence of distortion(s) on a raw 
material accounting for more than 17 % of the cost of production of the product concerned, were met with regard 
to the PRC. 
6.2.3. Union interest under Article 7(2b) of the basic Regulation 
(351) Having concluded that there are raw material distortions as provided for by Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation in 
the case of the PRC and Indonesia, the Commission examined whether it could clearly conclude that it was in the 
Union interest to determine the amount of provisional duties in accordance with Article 7(2b) of the basic 
Regulation. The determination of the Union interest was based on an appreciation of all pertinent information to 
this investigation, including the spare capacities in the exporting countries, competition for raw materials and the 
effect on supply chains for Union companies in accordance with Article 7(2b) of the basic Regulation. In order to 
conduct this assessment, the Commission inserted specific questions in the questionnaires to all interested parties. 
The complainant and the sampled Union producers provided response to those questions. 
6.2.3.1. Spare capacities in the exporting countries 
(352) On the basis of information provided by Eurofer, spare capacity in the PRC was estimated at 26,4 million tonnes in 
2019 (94), and spare capacity of the total stainless steel sector in Indonesia was estimated at 4 million tonnes in 
2019. (95) 
(353) According to the GOI questionnaire however, spare capacity in Indonesia is currently at 2,1 million tonnes. By 
contrast, the Union free market had a size of 1,2 million tonnes. In relative terms, spare capacities in the exporting 
countries are therefore of an enormous magnitude. 
6.2.3.2. Competition for raw materials 
(354) As regards competition for raw materials, the GOC provided no meaningful information on the market for the 
distorted raw materials in the PRC, as set out in recital (347). The complainant stated that by artificially increasing 
or decreasing the level of raw materials supply, or simply by centrally setting the prices, the GOC can steer the 
prices upwards or downwards. As set out in Section 6.2.2 above, the Chinese raw materials market was considered 
to be distorted. 
(355) With regard to Indonesia, the investigation found that Indonesia has one of the biggest nickel ore mining sectors in 
the world. Therefore, by having export restrictions on nickel ore brings, the GOI brings prices artificially down on 
the domestic Indonesian market. 
(356) Both countries have export restrictions on nickel containing inputs, which is also the second most important input 
of the Union producers, as set out in recital (319). 
(357) All these issues create a comparative disadvantage for the Union industry compared to the exporting producers in 
the countries concerned. The Commission deems that this situation is unlikely to change in the near future. With 
regard to Indonesia, the situation even worsened recently. Measures allowing for exports of nickel ore with a nickel 
content below 1,7 % were supposed to last until January 2022. The GOI, however, decided to expedite their 
termination. All exports of nickel ore were prohibited as of January 2020 (96). There is no evidence that the GOI 
would reverse its policy in the near future. 
(94) Non-confidential version of the complaint, page 66, para. 336. 
(95) Non-condidential version of the complaint, page 69, para. 352. 
(96) Available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-indonesia-nickel/indonesian-nickel-miners-agree-to-stop-ore-exports-immediately- 
investment-chief-idUSKBN1X7106 (last viewed 11 March 2020). 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/51   

6.2.3.3. Effect on supply chains for Union companies 
(358) In the lack of full cooperation from importers, the Commission provisionally established that the main effect on 
supply chains will be felt at the level of users. The possible effect on supply chains for Union companies, stipulated 
under Article 7(2b) of the basic Regulation, was, in view of the important difference between the dumping and 
injury margins for exporting countries, assessed in the context of the Union interest test pursuant to Article 21 of 
the basic Regulation. 
(359) As concluded in recital (373) below, that analysis resulted in the determination that, in view of the effect of measures 
at the level of the dumping margin, it is not in accordance with the Union interest to apply Article 7(2a) of the basic 
Regulation. 
6.2.3.4. Conclusion 
(360) In view of the analysis set out above, the Commission concluded that, in accordance with Artile 7(2a) of the basic 
Regulation, it is not in the interest of the Union to set the level of the measures at the level of dumping in view of 
the disproportionally negative effect this is likely to have on supply chains for Union companies. 
7. UNION INTEREST 
(361) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether it could clearly conclude 
that it was not in the Union interest to adopt measures in this case, despite the determination of injurious dumping. 
The determination of the Union interest was based on an appreciation of all the various interests involved, including 
those of the Union industry, importers and users. 
7.1. Interest of the Union industry 
(362) The Union industry is located in several Member States and it employs directly 2 372 employees in relation to the 
product under investigation. None of the Union producers opposed the initiation of the investigation. As shown in 
section 4 above when analysing the injury indicators, the whole Union industry experienced a deterioration of its 
situation and was negatively affected by the dumped imports. 
(363) It is expected that the imposition of provisional anti-dumping duties will restore fair trading conditions on the Union 
market, end the price depression and enable the Union industry to recover. This would result in an improvement of 
the Union industry’s profitability towards levels considered necessary for this capital intensive industry. The Union 
industry has suffered material injury caused by imports at dumped prices from the countries concerned. It is 
recalled that a number of key injury indicators showed a negative trend during the period considered. In particular, 
market share and sales volume, as well as indicators pertaining to the financial performance of the sampled Union 
producers, such as profitability and return on investment, were seriously affected. It is therefore important to 
restore prices to non-dumped or at least non-injurious level in order to allow all producers to operate on the Union 
market under fair trading conditions. In the absence of measures, a further deterioration of the Union industry’s 
economic situation is very likely. A bad performance on the SSHR segment would impact the downstream 
segments of Union producers, and in particular their captive production. Union producers heavily rely on the 
business model of a combination of free market sales and captive production. A deterioration of the free market 
segment could likewise put at risk the captive production segment, which represents bigger production volumes 
and employment figures than the former. 
(364) It is therefore provisionally concluded that the imposition of anti-dumping duties would be in the interest of the 
Union industry as it would allow it to recover from the effects of injurious dumping found. 
7.2. Interest of unrelated importers 
(365) Two parties made themselves known as unrelated importers and replied to the relevant questionnaire. However, the 
reply of one of them was not further followed up as the importer turned out to be operating from outside the Union. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/52                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

(366) The second party turned out not be a genuine importer but a service centre for various operations. Therefore, there 
was no cooperation from genuine importers. According to the cooperating service center operator, increasing the 
price of the products concerned results in higher cost of manufacturing for European users of the products, causing 
injury to these users. More specifically, the party made a product exclusion request which is addressed under Section 
2.3 along with other such claims. 
(367) On that basis, at this stage there is no indication that measures would be against the interest of importers. 
7.3. Interest of users 
(368) Two users cooperated with the investigation. 
(369) One of the users which submitted a questionnaire reply was a producer of stainless steel tubes. With regard to that 
user, the Commission found that in view of its purchasing and importing volumes, its total profit and its profit 
derived from output products that involve the product concerned as an input, the imposition of measures would 
not unduly harm it. 
(370) The second cooperating user is a producer of stainless steel products which competes with the Union industry on 
several of its key downstream markets. It purchases significant volumes of SSHR from the Union industry as well as 
from producers outside the Union, including in the countries concerned. That user has raised concerns on the 
security of supply and purchase prices following any imposition of duties. It is the only large independent user of 
the product concerned in the Union. Without integrated steel production, it fully depends on coils supplies from 
other parties to manufacture its downstream products. The party claimed that the Union industry is not interested 
in selling additional large volumes of SSHR to it, and in particular one product type (black coils), at competitive 
prices, since the Union producers would prefer to keep them for their own captive use. This claim is rebutted by the 
fact that the Union industry had spare capacities throughout the period considered that exceeded the total demand 
of that user at least fourfold. Moreover, as the complainant has submitted, several Union producers are ready to 
supply black coils as communicated on the producers’ websites. Finally, given the user’s already established supply 
chains and contacts with third country producers, it is also reasonable to expect that it will be able also to diversify 
its supply by purchasing more from third countries. 
(371) Provided that all relevant factors (in particular sources, volumes and prices before duties of purchases and turnover 
achieved on downstream products) would remain unchanged as compared to the investigation period, the 
Commission established that the overall annual profit of that user would be seriously affected in a negative way if 
duties were imposed on imports from the PRC and Indonesia pursuant to Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation. 
(372) If, under the same assumption as in recital (369), duties were imposed on imports from the PRC and Indonesia 
pursuant to Article 7(2) of the basic Regulation, the overall annual profit would also be affected but to a much 
lesser extent. 
(373) The above scenarios are based on static assumptions (i.e. all relevant factors remain unchanged except that duties will 
be imposed and hence to be factored in). In fact, they are worst case scenarios as, as explained below, in case duties 
are imposed the other underlying factors are likely to change. 
(374) In the first place, sourcing patterns and purchase prices will not remain the same. If prices of imports from in 
particular the PRC and Indonesia will be made subject to an upwards correction, imports from other sources of 
supply are likely to resume in larger volumes. In particular, we note that imports from South Korea were at high 
levels up to and including 2016, when they amounted to 65 000 tonnes. In view of market developments since 
then, these imports have lost important market shares over the years (see table 15) but it can be expected that after 
the imposition of measures exporting producers from Korea but also from other producing countries like South 
Africa will again increasingly focus on the Union market as they will be in a better position to compete, to the 
benefit of the users. Also, it is expected that due to the relief offered by the measures the Union industry will be in a 
position to sell more volumes to the users at competitive prices. The Union industry simply cannot afford to lose 
important market shares in the Union as this investigation testified. As regards the second user mentioned above, 
owing to its size and importance as a customer of the Union industry, it may have some leverage that is likely to 
increase in case it buys even larger volumes from the Union industry. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/53   

(375) It is also to be noted that it is foreseen that in July 2021, the currently applicable steel safeguard measures which also 
concern the product conerned will expire. This means that from July 2021, users will have increased access to 
alternative sources as the quota restrictions which have been in place since 19 July 2018 will be lifted. 
(376) It is therefore expected that the users as a whole are likely to be affected negatively by the imposition of duties, but 
that the impact of the duty at the established levels for the PRC and Indonesia pursuant to Article 7(2) of the basic 
Regulation is not as such as to be disproportionate, as it is expected that the user industry will then be able to adapt 
to the new situation. Indeed, if the level of duties were to be set pursuant to Article 7(2) of the basic Regulation, all of 
the cooperating users are expected to remain profitable. 
(377) However, if duties were to be imposed pursuant to Article 7(2a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission established 
that the possible impact of measures against the PRC and Indonesia at the level of the dumping margin would be 
disproportionate in view of the possible strong negative effects on supply chains for certain Union companies and 
in particular on users. Indeed, the Commission found that in such a scenario the user industry, and in particular 
users which purchased significant volumes from the PRC and/or Indonesia in the investigation period, might be 
unduly affected and could become as a result loss making. 
7.4. Conclusion on Union interest 
(378) On the basis of the above, and under the condition that duties are to be imposed pursuant to Article 7(2) of the basic 
Regulation, the Commission provisionally concluded that there were no compelling reasons that it was not in the 
Union interest to impose measures on imports of certain hot rolled stainless steel sheets and coils originating in the 
countries concerned at this stage of the investigation. 
8. PROVISIONAL ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 
(379) On the basis of the conclusions reached by the Commission on dumping, injury, causation and Union interest, 
provisional measures should be imposed imports of flat-rolled products of stainless steel, whether or not in coils 
(including products cut-to-length and narrow strip), not further worked than hot-rolled originating in Indonesia, 
the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan, to prevent further injury being caused to the Union industry by the 
dumped imports. 
(380) Provisional anti-dumping measures should be imposed in accordance with the lesser duty rule in Article 7(2) of the 
basic Regulation. The Commission compared the injury margins and the dumping margins. The amount of the 
duties was set at the level of the lower of the dumping and the injury margins. 
(381) On the basis of the above, the provisional anti-dumping duty rates, expressed on the CIF Union border price, 
customs duty unpaid, should be as follows:                                                              
Country 
Company 
Dumping 
margin 
Injury margin 
Provisional 
anti-dumping 
duty 
Indonesia 
PT Indonesia Guang Ching Nickel and 
Stainless Steel Industry 
and 
PT Indonesia Tsingshan Stainless Steel 
19,2 % 
17,0 % 
17,0 % 
Indonesia 
All other companies 
19,2 % 
17,0 % 
17,0 % 
People’s Republic of 
China 
Shanxi Taigang Stainless Steel Co., Ltd. 
108,4 % 
18,9 % 
18,9 % 
People’s Republic of 
China 
Fujian Fuxin Special Steel Co., Ltd 
55,6 % 
14,5 % 
14,5 % 
People’s Republic of 
China 
Xiangshui Defeng Metals Co., Ltd 
87,9 % 
17,4 % 
17,4 % 
People’s Republic of 
China 
Fujian Dingxin Technology Co., Ltd. 
87,9 % 
17,4 % 
17,4 % 
People’s Republic of 
China 
All other companies 
108,4 % 
18,9 % 
18,9 % 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/54                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

Country 
Company 
Dumping 
margin 
Injury margin 
Provisional 
anti-dumping 
duty 
Taiwan 
Yieh United Steel Co. 
and 
Tang Eng Iron Works Co. Ltd. 
6,0 % 
24,1 % 
6,0 % 
Taiwan 
Walsin Lihwa Co. 
7,5 % 
18,3 % 
7,5 % 
Taiwan 
All other companies 
7,5 % 
24,1 % 
7,5 %   
(382) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the 
provisional findings of this investigation. Therefore, they reflected the situation found during this investigation with 
respect to these companies. These duty rates are exclusively applicable to imports of the product concerned 
originating in the countries concerned and produced by the named legal entities. Imports of product concerned 
produced by any other company not specifically mentioned in the operative part of this Regulation, including 
entities related to those specifically mentioned, should be subject to the duty rate applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
They should not be subject to any of the individual anti-dumping duty rates. 
(383) A company may request the application of these individual anti-dumping duty rates if it changes subsequently the 
name of its entity. The request must be addressed to the Commission (97). The request must contain all the relevant 
information enabling to demonstrate that the change does not affect the right of the company to benefit from the 
duty rate which applies to it. If the change of name of the company does not affect its right to benefit from the duty 
rate which applies to it, a notice informing about the change of name will be published in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
(384) To minimise the risks of circumvention due to the high difference in duty rates, special measures are needed to 
ensure the proper application of the individual anti-dumping duties. The companies with individual anti-dumping 
duties must present a valid commercial invoice to the customs authorities of the Member States. The invoice must 
conform to the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this regulation. Imports not accompanied by that invoice 
should be subject to the anti-dumping duty applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
(385) While presentation of this invoice is necessary for the customs authorities of the Member States to apply the 
individual rates of anti-dumping duty to imports, it is not the only element to be taken into account by the customs 
authorities. Indeed, even if presented with an invoice meeting all the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this 
Regulation, the customs authorities of Member States should carry out their usual checks and may, like in all other 
cases, require additional documents (shipping documents, etc.) for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the 
particulars contained in the declaration and ensure that the subsequent application of the rate of duty is justified, in 
compliance with customs law. 
(386) Should the exports by one of the companies benefiting from lower individual duty rates increase significantly in 
volume, in particular after the imposition of the measures concerned, such an increase in volume could be 
considered as constituting in itself a change in the pattern of trade due to the imposition of measures within the 
meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation. In such circumstances, an anti-circumvention investigation may 
be initiated, provided the conditions for so doing are met. This investigation may, inter alia, examine the need for 
the removal of individual duty rate(s) and the consequent imposition of a country-wide duty. 
(387) To ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duties, the anti-dumping duty for all other companies should 
apply not only to the non-cooperating exporting producers in this investigation, but to the producers which did not 
have exports to the Union during the investigation period. 
9. REGISTRATION 
(388) As mentioned in recital (3), the Commission made imports of certain hot rolled stainless steel sheets and coils 
subject to registration. Registration took place with a view to possibly collecting duties retroactively under Article 
10(4) of the basic Regulation. Registration was thus ongoing during the pre-disclosure phase. 
(97) European Commission, Directorate-General for Trade, Directorate H, Rue de la Loi 170, 1040 Brussels, Belgium. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/55   

(389) In view of the findings at provisional stage, the registration of imports should cease/be discontinued. 
(390) No decision on a possible retroactive application of anti-dumping measures has been taken at this stage of the 
proceeding. Such a decision will be taken at definitive stage. 
10. INFORMATION AT PROVISIONAL STAGE 
(391) In accordance with Article 19a of the basic Regulation, the Commission informed interested parties about the 
planned imposition of provisional duties. This information was also made available to the general public via DG 
TRADE’s website. Interested parties were given three working days to provide comments on the accuracy of the 
calculations specifically disclosed to them. 
(392) Two exporting producers in the PRC, two exporting producers in Indonesia and three producers and one 
independent service centre in Taiwan submitted their comments. The Commission took into account comments 
that were considered of a clerical nature and in necessary, corrected the margins accordingly. 
11. FINAL PROVISIONS 
(393) In the interests of sound administration, the Commission will invite the interested parties to submit written 
comments and/or to request a hearing with the Commission and/or the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings within 
a fixed deadline. 
(394) The findings concerning the imposition of provisional duties are provisional and may be amended at the definitive 
stage of the investigation, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
1.
A provisional anti-dumping duty is imposed on flat-rolled products of stainless steel, whether or not in coils 
(including products cut-to-length and narrow strip), not further worked than hot-rolled and excluding products, not in 
coils, of a width of 600 mm or more and of a thickness exceeding 10 mm, currently falling under HS codes 7219 11, 
7219 12, 7219 13, 7219 14, 7219 22, 7219 23, 7219 24, 7220 11 and 7220 12 and originating in the People’s Republic 
of China, Taiwan and Indonesia. 
2.
The rates of the provisional anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price, before duty, of the 
product described in paragraph 1 and produced by the companies listed below, shall be as follows:                                                              
Country 
Company 
Provisional anti- 
dumping duty 
TARIC additional code 
Indonesia 
PT Indonesia Guang Ching Nickel and Stain­
less Steel Industry 
17,0 % 
C541 
Indonesia 
PT Indonesia Tsingshan Stainless Steel 
17,0 % 
C547 
Indonesia 
All other companies 
17,0 % 
C999 
People’s Republic of China 
Shanxi Taigang Stainless Steel Co., Ltd. 
18,9 % 
C163 
People’s Republic of China 
Taiyuan Taigang Daming Metal Products 
18,9 % 
C542 
People’s Republic of China 
Tisco Guangdong Stainless Steel Service Cen­
ter Co., Ltd 
18,9 % 
C543 
People’s Republic of China 
Tianjin TISCO & TPCO Stainless Steel Co. Ltd. 
18,9 % 
C025 
People’s Republic of China 
Fujian Fuxin Special Steel Co., Ltd 
14,5 % 
C544 
People’s Republic of China 
Xiangshui Defeng Metals Co., Ltd 
17,4 % 
C545 
People’s Republic of China 
Fujian Dingxin Technology Co., Ltd. 
17,4 % 
C546 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 110/56                                                                                                                                           
8.4.2020   

Country 
Company 
Provisional anti- 
dumping duty 
TARIC additional code 
People’s Republic of China 
All other companies 
18,9 % 
C999 
Taiwan 
Yieh United Steel Co. 
6,0 % 
C032 
Taiwan 
Tang Eng Iron Works Co. Ltd. 
6,0 % 
C031 
Taiwan 
Walsin Lihwa Co. 
7,5 % 
C548 
Taiwan 
All other companies 
7,5 % 
C999   
3.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be conditional 
upon presentation to the Member States’ customs authorities of a valid commercial invoice, on which shall appear a declaration 
dated and signed by an official of the entity issuing such invoice, identified by his/her name and function, drafted as follows: ‘I, the 
undersigned, certify that the (volume) of (product concerned) sold for export to the European Union covered by this invoice was manufactured by 
(company name and address) (TARIC additional code) in (the country concerned). I declare that the information provided in this invoice is 
complete and correct.’ If no such invoice is presented, the duty applicable to all other companies shall apply. 
4.
The release for free circulation in the Union of the product referred to in paragraph 1 shall be subject to the provision 
of a security deposit equivalent to the amount of the provisional duty. 
5.
Where a declaration for release for free circulation is presented in respect of the product referred to in paragraph 1, 
the number of pieces of the products imported shall be entered in the relevant field of that declaration. 
6.
Unless otherwise specified, the relevant provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply. 
Article 2 
1.
Interested parties shall submit their written comments on this regulation to the Commission within 15 calendar days 
of the date of entry into force of this Regulation. 
2.
Interested parties wishing to request a hearing with the Commission shall do so within 5 calendar days of the date of 
entry into force of this Regulation. 
3.
Interested parties wishing to request a hearing with the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings shall do so within 5 
calendar days of the date of entry into force of this Regulation. The Hearing Officer shall examine requests submitted 
outside this time limit and may decide whether to accept to such requests if appropriate. 
Article 3 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
Article 1 shall apply for a period of six months. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 7 April 2020.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
8.4.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 110/57