II 
(Non-legislative acts) 
REGULATIONS 
COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2023/361 
of 28 November 2022 
supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and the Council as regards 
rules for the use of certain veterinary medicinal products for the purpose of prevention and 
control of certain listed diseases 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on 
transmissible animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the area of animal health (‘Animal Health 
Law’) ( 1 ), and in particular Article 47(1) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases that are trans­
missible to animals or to humans, including rules on disease awareness, preparedness and control. In particular, 
Regulation (EU) 2016/429 lays down disease-specific rules for the prevention and control of diseases referred to 
in its Article 5. Regulation (EU) 2016/429 also provides that those disease-specific rules apply to species and 
groups of animal species that pose a considerable risk for the spread of specific diseases and that are listed as 
such in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882 ( 2 ). 
(2) 
In accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, Member States may take appropriate and necessary 
measures concerning the use of veterinary medicinal products for listed diseases to ensure the most efficient 
prevention and control of those diseases. Certain veterinary medicinal products may interfere in the detection and 
diagnosis of diseases, and therefore in their prevention and control. This is particularly relevant for those listed 
diseases that are subject to stricter prevention and control measures in accordance with Regulation (EU) 
2016/429. It is necessary to identify the veterinary medicinal products for which supplementing rules need to 
be developed pursuant to Article 47 of that Regulation and to establish restrictions or prohibitions to their use to 
ensure safe and effective prevention and control of certain listed diseases. 
(3) 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882 lays down the definitions of category A, B, C, D and E diseases, relying 
on disease prevention and control rules set out in Article 9(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429. Listed diseases 
referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 that do not normally occur in the Union and for which 
immediate eradication measures are to be taken as soon as they are detected (‘category A diseases’) are subject to 
specific rules laid down in Article 9(1), point (a), of that Regulation. With a view to prevent the potentially 
devastating effects of category A diseases on animal health in the Union, it is necessary to harmonise the rules 
under which Member States may use veterinary medicinal products for the prevention and control of those 
diseases. Such rules should aim to ensure effective prevention of category A diseases and their immediate 
eradication in the case of an outbreak, as well as to prevent that the use of the veterinary medicinal products 
poses a risk for the spread of those diseases.
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/1 
( 1 ) OJ L 84, 31.3.2016, p. 1. 
( 2 ) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882 of 3 December 2018 on the application of certain disease prevention and 
control rules to categories of listed diseases and establishing a list of species and groups of species posing a considerable risk for the 
spread of those listed diseases (OJ L 308, 4.12.2018, p. 21).

 
(4) 
It is necessary to lay down rules supplementing the rules on disease awareness and preparedness set out in 
Chapter 2, Title I of Part III of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 for certain listed diseases, in particular the rules on the 
use of veterinary medicinal products for disease prevention and control. Those supplementing rules and the rules 
set out in Regulation (EU) 2016/429 are closely linked and should be applied in tandem. 
(5) 
Since both terrestrial and aquatic animals may be affected by category A diseases listed in accordance with 
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, certain general rules laid down in this Regulation should cover terrestrial 
and aquatic animals. This would help Member States facing an imminent risk of spread of a category A disease in 
their territory to immediately react under a harmonised framework, if needed. This is particularly important for 
aquatic animals, since disease-specific rules for the use of vaccines against category A diseases can only be 
developed for terrestrial animals for the time being, due to lack of scientific knowledge, combined with lack 
of experience and of availability of vaccines against aquatic category A diseases. 
(6) 
Listed diseases referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 which are to be controlled in all Member 
States with the goal of eradicating them throughout the Union (‘category B diseases’) are subject to specific rules 
laid down in Article 9(1), point (b), of that Regulation. Therefore, it is necessary to harmonise the rules under 
which Member States may use certain veterinary medicinal products for that purpose. Such rules should aim to 
ensure the effective eradication of category B diseases without detection and diagnostic interferences caused by 
any veterinary medicinal product. 
(7) 
For listed diseases referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 which are of relevance to some Member 
States and for which measures are needed to prevent them from spreading to parts of the Union that are officially 
disease-free or that have eradication programmes for the listed diseases concerned, as referred to in Article 9(1), 
point (c), of that Regulation (‘category C diseases’), rules for the use of certain veterinary medicinal products, in 
particular for the use of vaccines in the context of eradication programmes are laid down in Commission 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/689 ( 3 ). For listed diseases referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 
2016/429 for which measures are needed to prevent them from spreading on account of their entry into the 
Union or movements between Member States, as referred to in Article 9(1), point (d), of that Regulation (‘category 
D diseases’), rules for the use of certain veterinary medicinal products for the movements of animals within the 
Union are laid down in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 ( 4 ). Such rules should therefore not be 
replicated in this Regulation. 
(8) 
In accordance with Article 46(3) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, Member States are to take appropriate preventive 
measures concerning the use of veterinary medicinal products for scientific studies or for the purposes of 
developing and testing them under controlled conditions to protect animal and public health. It is necessary 
to facilitate the research and innovation as regards development of more effective and safer veterinary medicinal 
products to prevent and control listed diseases. Therefore, the rules laid down in this Regulation should not apply 
to the use of veterinary medicinal products for scientific studies or for the purpose of developing and testing 
them under controlled conditions to protect animal and public health, to avoid any unnecessary burden that may 
interfere in the development of new possibilities, considering the specific risk-mitigating conditions under which 
veterinary medicinal products are used in those circumstances. 
(9) 
Regulation (EU) 2019/6 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 5 ) lays down rules for the placing on the 
market, manufacturing, import, export, supply, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and use of veterinary 
medicinal products. That Regulation lays down a definition of a veterinary medicinal product and definitions of 
certain categories of veterinary medicinal products. It also lays down conditions under which a competent 
authority may allow the use of an immunological veterinary medicinal product not authorised within the 
Union. The rules provided for in this Regulation should comply with those definitions as well as with the 
requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2019/6, for the placing on the market, manufacturing, import,
EN 
L 52/2 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023 
( 3 ) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/689 of 17 December 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council as regards rules for surveillance, eradication programmes, and disease-free status for certain listed and 
emerging diseases (OJ L 174, 3.6.2020, p. 211). 
( 4 ) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688 of 17 December 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council, as regards animal health requirements for movements within the Union of terrestrial animals and 
hatching eggs (OJ L 174, 3.6.2020, p. 140). 
( 5 ) Regulation (EU) 2019/6 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on veterinary medicinal products and 
repealing Directive 2001/82/EC (OJ L 4, 7.1.2019, p. 43).

 
export, supply, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and use of veterinary medicinal products. Furthermore, 
the rules provided for in this Regulation should only aim to lay down specific conditions for the appropriate use 
or prohibition of use of veterinary medicinal products to prevent and control category A diseases and certain 
category B diseases in the Union, irrespective of the products’ origin, marketing authorisation or other 
characteristics. 
(10) 
In accordance with Article 47 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, the Commission may adopt rules when this is 
appropriate and necessary to prohibit the use of a certain veterinary medicinal product for a specific disease. 
Rinderpest has been recognised as a globally eradicated disease by the World Organisation for Animal Health 
(WOAH, founded as OIE) and all vaccinations against rinderpest have ceased throughout the world. Vaccination 
against rinderpest should therefore be prohibited by this Regulation. 
(11) 
In addition, the currently available vaccines against infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex 
(Mycobacterium bovis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium caprae) (MTBC), do not confer full protection 
in vaccinated animals and compromise tuberculin skin tests or other immunological tests relying on the use of 
tuberculin, for the distinction between vaccinated and infected animals. As a result, use of these vaccines in kept 
animals of listed species may jeopardise current bovine tuberculosis control and eradication policies, since it may 
not be possible to distinguish between vaccinated and infected animals. Vaccination against MTBC, in kept 
animals of listed species, should therefore also be prohibited by this Regulation. 
(12) 
Some Member States currently allow the regular precautionary use of vaccines against Newcastle disease, for 
purposes other than responding to an outbreak. In addition, there are uses of vaccines against Newcastle disease 
as a requirement for movements, within the Union and for entry into the Union from third countries or 
territories. These uses have proven to be safe and effective in preventing the disease since there have not been 
outbreaks of Newcastle disease linked to the use of vaccines for such purposes. Therefore, the general prohib­
itions and restrictions for the use of vaccines against category A diseases laid down in this Regulation should not 
apply to such use of vaccines against Newcastle disease in those contexts. 
(13) 
Moreover, some other veterinary medicinal products, such as hyper-immune sera, antimicrobials and some 
immunological veterinary medicinal products may, if used for the prevention and control of certain animal 
diseases, mask the presence of these diseases that may spread unnoticed in animal populations. This may 
hamper the early detection of the disease, and negatively affect its rapid eradication. This is in particular 
relevant for category A and B diseases, for which an immediate or timely eradication is essential. Therefore, it 
is appropriate to lay down certain restrictions for such veterinary medicinal products in this Regulation 
preventing their use in listed species for category A and B diseases. 
(14) 
The competent authority of each Member State should be responsible for implementing disease prevention and 
control measures for category A diseases in terrestrial and aquatic animals. Vaccination may be a useful measure 
that may help prevent, control and eradicate some of category A diseases. Considering the pathogenic potential of 
these diseases and the potential risk of their spreading, derived from the use of vaccines, it is necessary that 
vaccines administered against such type of diseases are used under the control of the competent authority and 
only when disease control measures need to be put in place to prevent and control the spread of the disease. 
Furthermore, in order to ensure an effective eradication and a consistent application of all disease control 
measures, vaccination should be implemented in a structured manner according to an official vaccination 
plan. An official vaccination plan should include detailed information about the measures set out in it. The 
minimum information to be included in those official vaccination plans should be provided for in this Regulation. 
(15) 
Given that vaccination may be an appropriate tool in some circumstances to control or eradicate a category A 
disease, while not in others, and that its use may sometimes have negative impacts (e.g. on trade), the competent 
authority should carry out a prior risk assessment before applying vaccination. Criteria for such assessment 
should be provided for in this Regulation. 
(16) 
To ensure a coordinated EU approach, Member States should provide the Commission and the other Member 
States with a set of preliminary information before they apply vaccination against a category A disease. The 
Commission should review that information from Member States in accordance with Article 71 of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/429. 
(17) 
Article 69 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 provides for the possibility that the competent authority of a Member 
State uses emergency vaccination where relevant for the effective control of a listed disease in kept animals. To do 
that, the competent authority should develop an official vaccination plan for its implementation and establish 
vaccination zones taking into account certain requirements. This Regulation should therefore lay down those 
requirements for emergency vaccination, the use of vaccines and the establishment of vaccination zones.
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/3

 
(18) 
The competent authority may implement such emergency vaccination in affected establishments or in not 
affected establishments as provided for in Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 ( 6 ). Such estab­
lishments will normally be located in restriction zones, however they may also be placed outside such zones. 
Different emergency vaccination strategies should be applied to those situations. Vaccination implemented in 
affected establishments where vaccinated animals will be killed is considered as emergency suppressive vacci­
nation. Emergency vaccination may also take place to prevent the spread of the disease in animal populations at 
risk of infection that are kept in establishments where the disease has not been suspected or confirmed in 
accordance with Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687. In such cases, the animals may be killed or kept alive 
under special conditions. Emergency vaccination may also be used in wild terrestrial animals when the risk of 
spreading of the disease in kept or wild terrestrial animal populations requires so. This Regulation should 
therefore develop those strategies and provide for the rules for their implementation, and for record keeping 
and reporting obligations that apply in all those circumstances. 
(19) 
To prevent the spread of a category A disease or to avoid potential losses and the need to apply drastic disease 
control measures, Member States may decide to use preventive vaccination against a category A disease in its 
absence in a country or a zone. To this effect, specific rules should be laid down in this Regulation. 
(20) 
Although vaccination has proved its capacity to help with prevention, control and eradication of several diseases, 
it may however, depending on the disease and type of vaccine used, mask in certain circumstances an underlying 
infection and affect the reliability of disease surveillance. Therefore, when vaccination is implemented, certain 
accompanying risk mitigation measures should be taken for the movement of vaccinated animals and their 
products. 
(21) 
After the completion of emergency protective vaccination an exit strategy should enable Member States to 
demonstrate the absence of infection and to recover the health status they had prior to the outbreaks of the 
relevant category A disease and the use of vaccination. Such exit strategy should consist of a specific reinforced 
clinical and laboratory surveillance during the pre-defined recovery period for each specific category A disease. 
(22) 
Specific conditions for each category A disease should be set out for implementing vaccination as regards the 
type of vaccines used, the size of the vaccination zones, the targeted animal populations, disease surveillance, 
movement restrictions for animals and their products, and recovery periods. This is the case for diseases for 
which sufficient experience and data are available from the application of rules in place, before the entry into 
application of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, from recent European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) opinions or from 
the relevant chapters of the WOAH Terrestrial Animal Health Code and WOAH Manual of Diagnostic Tests and 
Vaccines for Terrestrial Animals. For diseases for which sufficient experience and data are not available, disease 
specific measures cannot be provided for the moment. For those diseases general rules of this Regulation should 
apply, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
PART I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Article 1 
Subject matter and scope 
1. 
This Regulation supplements the rules laid down in Regulation (EU) 2016/429 on the use within the Union of 
veterinary medicinal products with regard to prevention and control of the listed diseases referred to in Article 9(1), 
points (a) and (b), of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 in kept and wild terrestrial and aquatic animals (‘animals’). In particular, 
it lays down: 
(a) prohibitions and restrictions on the use of certain veterinary medicinal products in animals for prevention and 
control of category A and B diseases; 
(b) rules on the use of vaccines in animals for prevention and control of category A and certain category B diseases; 
(c) risk-mitigating measures to prevent the spread of category A diseases through vaccinated animals or products from 
such animals; 
(d) rules on surveillance of category A diseases following the use of vaccines in terrestrial animals for their prevention 
and control.
EN 
L 52/4 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023 
( 6 ) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 of 17 December 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European 
Parliament and the Council, as regards rules for the prevention and control of certain listed diseases (OJ L 174, 3.6.2020, p. 64).

 
2. 
This Regulation does not apply to the use of the veterinary medicinal products referred to in paragraph 1 for 
scientific studies or for the purposes of developing and testing them, as referred to in Article 46(3) of Regulation (EU) 
2016/429. 
Article 2 
Definitions 
1. 
For the purposes of this Regulation the following definitions apply: 
(a) ‘category A disease’ means a listed disease that does not normally occur in the Union and for which immediate 
eradication measures must be taken as soon as it is detected, as referred to in Article 9(1), point (a), of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/429; 
(b) ‘category B disease’ means a listed disease which must be controlled in all Member States with the goal of 
eradicating it throughout the Union, as referred to in Article 9(1), point (b), of Regulation (EU) 2016/429; 
(c) ‘emergency suppressive vaccination’ means a vaccination strategy implemented by the competent authority in kept 
terrestrial animals for the prevention and control of category A diseases in accordance with Article 7(1), point (a)(i); 
(d) ‘emergency protective vaccination’ means a vaccination strategy implemented by the competent authority in kept 
terrestrial animals for the prevention and control of category A diseases in accordance with Article 7(1), point (a)(ii); 
(e) ‘emergency vaccination in wild terrestrial animals’ means a vaccination strategy implemented by the competent 
authority in wild terrestrial animals for the prevention and control of category A diseases in accordance with 
Article 7(1), point (a)(iii); 
(f) 
‘preventive vaccination’ means a vaccination strategy implemented by the competent authority for the prevention 
and control of category A diseases in accordance with Article 7(1), point (b); 
(g) ‘vaccination zone’ means a zone in which a vaccine is administered to listed species to prevent and control 
category A diseases; 
(h) ‘peri-vaccination zone’ means a zone, surrounding the vaccination zone, where vaccination for the purpose of 
preventing and controlling category A diseases is not allowed and where reinforced surveillance is implemented to 
detect those diseases. 
(i) 
‘confirmed outbreak’ means an outbreak confirmed in accordance with Article 9(2), (3) and (4) of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/689; 
(j) 
‘recovery period’ means the necessary period of time required for a vaccination zone to recover the animal health 
status prior to the implementation of vaccination against a category A disease, by demonstrating absence of the 
category A disease after emergency protective vaccination against the disease has been carried out; 
(k) ‘protection zone’ means a protection zone as established on the basis of Article 21(1), point (a), of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(l) 
‘surveillance zone’ means a surveillance zone as established on the basis of Article 21(1), point (b), of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(m) ‘bovine animal’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the genera Bison, Bos (including the 
subgenera Bos, Bibos, Novibos, Poephagus) and Bubalus (including the subgenus Anoa) and the offspring of crossings 
of those species; 
(n) ‘ovine animal’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the genus Ovis and the offspring of 
crossings of those species; 
(o) ‘caprine animal’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the genus Capra and the offspring of 
crossings of those species; 
(p) ‘camelid animal’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the family Camelidae listed in Annex III 
to Regulation (EU) 2016/429; 
(q) ‘porcine animal’ means an animal of the species of ungulates belonging to the family Suidae listed in Annex III to 
Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/5

 
(r) ‘equine animal’ as an animal of species of solipeds belonging to the genus Equus (including horses, asses, and zebras) 
and the offspring of crossings of those species; 
(s) ‘day-old chicks’ means all poultry less than 72 hours old. 
2. 
In addition to the definitions laid down in paragraph 1, the definitions of ‘veterinary medicinal product’, ‘immuno­
logical veterinary medicinal product’ and ‘antimicrobial’ set out in Article 4(1), (5) and (12) of Regulation (EU) 2019/6 
shall apply. 
Article 3 
Prohibitions and restrictions on the use of vaccines in animals for the prevention and control of category A 
and certain category B diseases 
1. 
Member States may allow the use of vaccines in animals for the prevention and control of category A diseases, 
except for the diseases listed in Part 1 of Annex I, only under the control of the competent authority and if they are 
used: 
(a) as a part of the official measures put in place by the competent authority for prevention and control of those 
diseases; 
(b) under the conditions laid down in this Regulation. 
2. 
The conditions for the use of vaccines against category A diseases, laid down in the first subparagraph, shall not 
apply to certain uses of vaccines against infection with Newcastle disease virus, notably to routine precautionary use or 
to use in the framework of trade, that the Member States may allow outside the official disease prevention and control 
measures referred to in paragraph 1 for purposes other than responding to an outbreak. 
3. 
Member States may allow the use of vaccines in animals for prevention and control of category B diseases, except 
for the diseases listed in Part 2 of Annex I, in those listed species for which the corresponding diseases have been 
classified as category B. 
Article 4 
Prohibitions and restrictions on the use of certain veterinary medicinal products, other than vaccines, in 
animals, for the prevention and control of category A and B diseases 
Member States shall prohibit the use of the following veterinary medicinal products in animals for the prevention and 
control of category A and B diseases unless they are used for the prevention and control of the diseases listed in Part 3 
of Annex I and their use complies with the conditions set out therein: 
(a) immunological veterinary medicinal products to diagnose the state of immunity of animals; 
(b) hyper-immune serum; 
(c) inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products, as referred to in Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) 2019/6; 
(d) antimicrobials. 
PART II 
RULES ON THE USE OF VACCINES FOR THE PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF CATEGORY A DISEASES IN ANIMALS 
CHAPTER 1 
Preconditions 
Article 5 
Preconditions for the use of vaccines for the prevention and control of category A diseases in terrestrial and 
aquatic animals 
1. 
The competent authority may decide on the use of vaccines in animals to prevent and control category A diseases, 
in accordance with Article 3(1), provided that: 
(a) it has carried out an assessment to support this decision considering at least the criteria set out in Part 1 of Annex II, 
in addition to the criteria provided for in Article 46(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429;
EN 
L 52/6 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
(b) the vaccines are used in accordance with an official vaccination plan which fulfils the requirements laid down in 
Article 6. 
2. 
The competent authority may carry out the assessment referred to in paragraph 1, point (a), following the 
simplified rules provided for in Part 2 of Annex II when implementing the vaccination strategy referred to in 
Article 7(1), point (a)(i). 
Article 6 
Official vaccination plan for the prevention and control of category A diseases in terrestrial and aquatic 
animals, and information obligations for the Member States 
1. 
The official vaccination plan referred to in Article 5(1), point (b), shall: 
(a) detail, at least, the information and measures set out in Part 1 of Annex III; 
(b) be implemented under the control of the competent authority and only for the strictly necessary period of time. 
2. 
The competent authority may include in the official vaccination plan referred to in Article 5(1), point (b), the 
simplified information provided for in Part 2 of Annex III, when implementing the vaccination strategy referred to in 
Article 7(1), point (a)(i). 
3. 
The competent authority shall keep up to date, amend or supplement the official vaccination plan referred to in 
Article 5(1), point (b), taking into account the evolution of its implementation and the evolution of the epidemiological 
situation of the disease. 
4. 
Member States shall provide the other Member States and the Commission with: 
(a) at least the preliminary information set out in Annex IV, at the latest two days before starting the vaccination; 
(b) the official vaccination plan and its amendments and updates, as soon as possible and at the latest two weeks after 
starting the vaccination or implementing the amendments or updates of the official vaccination plan. 
5. 
The Commission shall, in accordance with Article 71 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, review the national measures 
referred to in paragraph 2 of that Article, as laid in the official vaccination plan, and act in accordance with that Article. 
CHAPTER 2 
Rules on the implementation of vaccination in terrestrial animals and entry into force 
S e c t i o n 1 
V a c c i n a t i o n s t r a t e g i e s a n d r e l a t e d d i s e a s e s u r v e i l l a n c e 
Article 7 
Vaccination strategies for the prevention and control of category A diseases in terrestrial animals 
1. 
The competent authority may implement the following vaccination strategies to prevent and control category A 
diseases in terrestrial animals, in accordance with Article 3(1): 
(a) emergency vaccination, as referred to in Article 69 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, may be any of the following: 
(i) emergency suppressive vaccination, implemented in response to an outbreak of a category A disease to control 
its spread and limited to kept terrestrial animals that are to be killed in accordance with Articles 12(1), point (a), 
and 18(1), point (b), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 but are subject to the derogation provided for in 
Article 12(4), point (b), of that Regulation; 
(ii) emergency protective vaccination, implemented in response to an outbreak of a category A disease, which is 
carried out in any of the following cases: 
— on terrestrial animals at risk of infection that are kept in establishments located in affected Member States or 
zones thereof, in which category A diseases have not been confirmed nor are suspected in accordance with 
Article 6(1) and Article 11 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687,
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/7

 
— in response to a change in the risk of introduction of a category A disease in a non-affected Member State 
or zone thereof, 
— on affected equine animals subject to the derogation provided for in point 1 of Annex III to Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(iii) emergency vaccination in wild terrestrial animals, implemented in response to an outbreak of a category A 
disease; 
(b) preventive vaccination, where a vaccine against a category A disease is administered to terrestrial animals in non- 
affected geographic areas for preventive purposes other than the cases covered by emergency protective vaccination. 
2. 
The competent authority may implement the strategies referred to in paragraph 1 simultaneously or consecutively 
in different kept and wild terrestrial animal populations, in different geographic zones and at different time points 
throughout an outbreak, and may vary the strategies applied according to the zone, species affected or other defining 
characteristics. In such cases, the competent authority shall include all the strategies applied simultaneously or consecu­
tively in the official vaccination plan after the assessment referred to in Article 5(1), point (a). 
Article 8 
Rules for the implementation of emergency suppressive vaccination 
When implementing emergency suppressive vaccination, as referred to in Article 7(1), point (a)(i), the competent 
authority shall: 
(a) vaccinate the animals subject to the derogation provided for in Article 12(4), point (b), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2020/687 without delay after the confirmation of the relevant outbreak(s); 
(b) order and supervise the killing of all vaccinated animals as soon as possible, in accordance with the rules laid down 
in either Article 12(1), point (a), or Article 12(4), point (a), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 and under the 
biosecurity measures provided for in Articles 12(1), point (c), and Article 12(2) of that Delegated Regulation. 
Article 9 
Rules for the implementation of emergency protective vaccination and emergency vaccination in wild animals 
1. 
When implementing emergency protective vaccination, as referred to in Article 7(1), point (a)(ii), and emergency 
vaccination in wild animals, as referred to in Article 7(1), point (a)(iii), the competent authority shall: 
(a) specify the type of vaccine to be used or prioritised, the minimum vaccine coverage and the targeted animals/species; 
(b) establish geographically: 
(i) a vaccination zone, in which vaccination is carried out, in order to prevent spreading of the category A disease 
from affected areas to non-affected areas; 
(ii) a peri-vaccination zone, surrounding the vaccination zone, in which vaccination is not allowed, covering a 
distance width from the perimeters of the vaccination zone; 
(c) implement reinforced clinical and laboratory surveillance in the vaccination and peri-vaccination zones referred to in 
point (b): 
(i) to assess vaccination effectiveness in the vaccination zone; 
(ii) to detect any possible new outbreak of the disease in the vaccination and peri-vaccination zones; 
(iii) in accordance with Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 as regards the sampling procedures, 
diagnostic methods and transport of samples; 
(iv) selecting the diagnostic methods depending on the type of vaccine administered. 
2. 
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, point (b)(ii), the competent authority may decide not to establish the peri- 
vaccination zone when implementing emergency protective vaccination in zones where the relevant category A disease 
has not been suspected or confirmed and when implementing emergency vaccination in wild animals.
EN 
L 52/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
3. 
Where vaccination zones or peri-vaccination zones as provided for in paragraph 1, point (b), are situated in the 
territory of more than one Member State, the competent authorities of those Member States shall cooperate in 
establishing them. 
4. 
Where disease-specific conditions are laid down in Parts 1 and 2 of Annexes VII to XIV, the competent authority 
shall implement the measures laid down in paragraph 1 in accordance with those conditions. 
Article 10 
Rules for the implementation of preventive vaccination 
1. 
Preventive vaccination may only be implemented for the prevention of category A diseases for which specific 
conditions for preventive vaccination are laid down in Part 5 of Annexes VII to XIV, and shall be implemented in 
accordance with those conditions. 
2. 
When implementing preventive vaccination, as referred to in Article 7(1), point (b), the competent authority shall: 
(a) specify the type of vaccine to be used or prioritised; 
(b) implement reinforced clinical and laboratory surveillance; 
in accordance with the relevant disease-specific conditions laid down in Part 5 of Annexes VII to XIV, where provided. 
Article 11 
Record-keeping and reporting obligations for emergency and preventive vaccination 
1. 
When implementing emergency and preventive vaccination the competent authority shall ensure that at least the 
information detailed in Annex V on the vaccination is recorded. 
2. 
The competent authority shall provide the other Member States and the Commission with a report on the 
implementation of the vaccination that includes at least the relevant information detailed in point 1 of Annex VI at 
the time points and minimum frequency provided for in point 2 of that Annex. 
S e c t i o n 2 
R i s k m i t i g a t i o n m e a s u r e s , c e r t i f i c a t i o n r e q u i r e m e n t s a n d r e c o v e r y p e r i o d s 
Article 12 
Biosafety rules for emergency and preventive vaccination 
1. 
When implementing emergency or preventive vaccination the competent authority shall ensure that the following 
tasks are under the supervision of an official veterinarian: 
(a) distribution and administration of the vaccine; 
(b) returning of any residual quantities of the vaccine to the point of distribution or to any other designated point with 
a record on the vaccinated establishments, the number of vaccinated animals and the number of doses used. 
2. 
During the administration of the vaccine and the return of residual quantities of the product, the competent 
authority shall put in place all the necessary measures to avoid the possible spread of disease agents. 
Article 13 
Risk-mitigating measures in the vaccination zone when implementing emergency protective vaccination and 
emergency vaccination in wild animals 
1. 
When implementing emergency protective vaccination the competent authority shall prohibit: 
(a) the movements of animals and products thereof laid down in Part 3, point 1, of Annexes VII to XIV; 
(b) the collection of the following germinal products from animals of listed species, laid down in Part 3, point 2, of 
Annexes VII to XIV: 
(i) semen; 
(ii) oocytes; 
(iii) embryos;
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/9

 
(c) in the absence of disease-specific conditions laid down in Part 3, of Annexes VII to XIV, movements of: 
(i) vaccinated animals from the establishment where they were vaccinated; 
(ii) products from vaccinated animals from the production and/or processing establishments. 
2. 
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, point (a), the competent authority may allow movements of vaccinated 
animals from the establishment where they were vaccinated if: 
(a) they are subject to compulsory killing after vaccination, in accordance with the official vaccination plan referred to 
in Article 5(1), point (b), and they are moved to be killed at the nearest suitable place; 
or 
(b) they are not subject to compulsory killing after vaccination, in accordance with the official vaccination plan referred 
to in Article 5(1), point (b), and they are either: 
(i) not subject to prohibitions of movements; 
or 
(ii) they are subject to prohibitions of movements but they comply with the relevant conditions and the competent 
authority has authorised their movement in accordance with the conditions laid down in Part 3, 
point 3, of Annexes VII to XIV. 
3. 
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, point (a), the competent authority may allow movements of products 
from vaccinated animals from the production and/or processing establishment if: 
(a) they are not subject to prohibitions of movements; 
or 
(b) the competent authority has authorised their movement in accordance with the conditions laid down in Part 3, 
point 3, of Annexes VII to XIV. 
4. 
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, point (b), the competent authority may allow the collection of the 
germinal products listed therein if: 
(a) they are not subject to prohibition of collection; 
or 
(b) the competent authority has authorised their collection in accordance with the conditions laid down in Part 3, 
point (3), of Annexes VII to XIV. 
5. 
When implementing emergency vaccination in wild animals the competent authority shall apply in the vaccination 
zone the disease-specific restrictions and other risk-mitigating measures set out in Part 3 of Annexes VII to XIV for the 
relevant disease, where provided specifically for emergency vaccination in wild animals. 
6. 
The restrictions and other risk-mitigating measures provided for in paragraphs 1 and 5 shall apply in the 
vaccination zones in addition to the measures applicable to: 
(a) protection and surveillance zones and further restricted zones where applicable, established in accordance with 
Article 21(1) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 in the event of an outbreak of a category A disease in kept 
terrestrial animals, until they are lifted in accordance with Articles 39 and 55 of that Regulation; 
(b) infected zones established in accordance with Article 63(1) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 in the event of 
an outbreak of a category A disease in wild animals, until they are lifted in accordance with Article 67 of that 
Regulation; 
(c) restricted zones established under emergency measures provided for in Articles 71, 257 and 258 of Regulation (EU) 
2016/429, and any rules adopted pursuant to Article 71(3) and Article 259 of that Regulation until those measures 
are lifted. 
7. 
The measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 5 shall continue to apply after the measures referred to in 
paragraph 6 have been lifted. 
Article 14 
Risk-mitigating measures when implementing preventive vaccination 
1. 
When implementing preventive vaccination the competent authority shall prohibit the movement of vaccinated 
animals from the establishment where they were vaccinated and the movement of products from vaccinated animals 
from the production and/or processing establishment.
EN 
L 52/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
2. 
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authority may allow movements of vaccinated animals 
and products thereof from the establishment where they were vaccinated or where they were produced and/or processed 
if: 
(a) they are not included in the list of animals and products subject to prohibitions of movements; 
(b) they are subject to prohibitions of movements but they comply with the relevant conditions and the competent 
authority has authorised their movement; 
in accordance with the conditions laid down in Part 5 of Annexes VII to XIV, where provided. 
Article 15 
Certification requirements for movements of kept animals and products thereof from vaccination zones 
Operators shall move animals and products, to which measures provided for in Article 13(1) apply, within a Member 
State or from one Member State to another Member State, only if the animals and products to be moved comply with 
the relevant conditions provided for in Article 13 and are accompanied by an animal health certificate issued by the 
competent authority of the Member State of origin in accordance with: 
(a) Article 149(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 for kept terrestrial animals; 
(b) Article 161(4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 for germinal products; 
(c) Article 167(3) of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 for products of animal origin; 
(d) Article 22(5) and (6) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 for animal by-products; 
Article 16 
Recovery periods after emergency protective vaccination 
1. 
After the completion of emergency protective vaccination the competent authority shall respect the relevant 
disease-specific recovery periods provided for in Part 4 of Annexes VII to XIV, during which clinical and/or laboratory 
surveillance demonstrating the absence of infection with the relevant pathogen is conducted in the vaccination and peri- 
vaccination zones. 
2. 
The surveillance referred to in paragraph 1 shall be implemented: 
(a) in accordance with: 
(i) the disease-specific conditions set out in Part 4 of Annexes VII to XIV; 
(ii) Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687, as regards the sampling procedures, diagnostic methods and 
transport of samples; 
(b) taking into account the type of vaccine administered. 
S e c t i o n 3 
F i n a l p r o v i s i o n s 
Article 17 
Entry into force 
This Regulation shall enter into force 20 days following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 28 November 2022. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/11

 
LIST OF ANNEXES 
1. 
Annex I on category A and B diseases for which the use of vaccines shall be prohibited by Member States and on 
the use of certain veterinary medicinal products, other than vaccines, for prevention and control of 
category A and B diseases. 
2. 
Annex II on the criteria for the use of a vaccine to prevent and control a category A disease in animals. 
3. 
Annex III on the information to be included in the official vaccination plan. 
4. 
Annex IV on the preliminary information to be provided to other Member States and the Commission prior to 
vaccination. 
5. 
Annex V on the minimum records on vaccination. 
6. 
Annex VI on the minimum information to be provided by the competent authority to other Member States and the 
Commission on the implementation of vaccination. 
7. 
Annex VII on vaccination against foot and mouth disease (FMD). 
8. 
Annex VIII on vaccination against infection with Rift Valley Fever virus (RVF). 
9. 
Annex IX on vaccination against infection with lumpy skin disease virus (LSD). 
10. Annex X on vaccination against infection with peste des petits ruminants virus (PPR). 
11. Annex XI on vaccination against African horse sickness (AHS). 
12. Annex XII on vaccination against classical swine fever (CSF). 
13. Annex XIII on vaccination against highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI). 
14. Annex XIV on vaccination against infection with Newcastle disease virus (NCD).
EN 
L 52/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
ANNEX I 
PART 1 
CATEGORY A DISEASES FOR WHICH THE USE OF VACCINES SHALL BE PROHIBITED BY MEMBER STATES 
— Infection with Rinderpest virus 
PART 2 
CATEGORY B DISEASES FOR WHICH THE USE OF VACCINES SHALL BE PROHIBITED BY MEMBER STATES 
— Infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (M. bovis, M. caprae and M. tuberculosis) 
PART 3 
USE OF CERTAIN VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, OTHER THAN VACCINES, FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL 
OF CATEGORY A AND B DISEASES 
(Article 4) 
Disease 
Type of veterinary medicinal product 
Conditions 
Infection with Brucella abortus, 
B. melitensis, B. suis 
Immunological veterinary medicinal 
products to diagnose the state of 
immunity of animals: brucelin 
Their use shall be allowed only in 
accordance with Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/688, Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/689, Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/686 and Regulation 
(EU) No 853/2004, or for export 
purposes 
Infection with Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis complex (M. bovis, 
M. caprae, M. tuberculosis) 
Immunological veterinary medicinal 
products to diagnose the state of 
immunity of animals: tuberculin 
Their use shall be allowed only in 
accordance with Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/688, Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/689, Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/686 and Regulation 
(EU) No 853/2004, or for export 
purposes
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/13

 
ANNEX II 
Criteria for the use of a vaccine to prevent and control a category A disease in animals 
PART 1 
1. Vaccination of kept animals 
1. 
Number of establishments where the category A disease has been confirmed or suspected; 
2. 
Type of establishments where the category A disease has been confirmed or suspected; 
3. 
Number of animals kept in the establishments where the category A disease has been confirmed or suspected; 
4. 
Species affected and risk of disease spread to humans; 
5. 
Presence of the disease in wild animals; 
6. 
Density of animals of listed species in the areas where the disease is present; 
7. 
Density of establishments keeping animals of listed species in the areas where the disease is present; 
8. 
Origin of the outbreak(s); 
9. 
Traceability and possibility to perform contact tracing; 
10. Incidence slope of outbreaks; 
11. Simulation models used to assess when and if vaccination is relevant, if such information is available; 
12. Capacity of killing and killing and disposal schedule in establishments where animals are killed; 
13. Movement of potentially infected animals or products out of the restricted zone established pursuant to 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
14. Rate of airborne or vector-borne spread of the disease agent from the establishments or area where the category 
A disease has been confirmed; 
15. Effectiveness of other disease control measures taken and available resources to implement them; 
16. Level of preparedness and capacity of the competent authorities and other personnel concerned; 
17. Economic assessment: cost–benefit analysis; 
18. Trade concerns: consequences on disease freedom status of the Member State concerned and trade restrictions 
likely to be imposed by third countries or territories as a consequence of vaccination. 
2. Vaccination of wild animals 
In addition to the criteria provided for in point 1, the following criteria shall be considered: 
1. mortality in wild animals due to the category A disease; 
2. knowledge of the population and ecological dynamics of the affected wild animals; 
3. size of the affected area (where animals affected are found); 
4. the risk of spread of the disease to additional listed species of wild animals or beyond the above area; 
5. the risk of spread of the category A disease to kept animals or to humans;
EN 
L 52/14 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
6. the availability of vaccines and vaccination systems to distribute the vaccine among the target population; 
7. the possibility to control the vaccination and to establish a surveillance system to detect the specific disease agent 
and to assess the effectiveness of vaccination. 
PART 2 
SIMPLIFIED ASSESSMENT OF THE VACCINATION STRATEGY 
1. Number of establishments where the category A disease has been confirmed or suspected; 
2. Type of establishments where the category A disease has been confirmed or suspected; 
3. Number of animals kept in the establishments where the category A disease has been confirmed or suspected; 
4. Species affected; 
5. Capacity of killing and killing and disposal schedule in establishments where animals are killed; 
6. Rate of airborne or vector-borne spread of the disease agent from the establishments or area where the category A 
disease has been confirmed.
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/15

 
ANNEX III 
Information to be included in the official vaccination plan 
PART 1 
1. Kept animals 
(a) the description and the results of the assessment performed in accordance with Annex II, including the 
epidemiological situation and the relevant information used as a basis for the assessment; 
(b) the main objectives and targets with the chosen vaccination strategy and the official vaccination plan; 
(c) the detailed geographic description of the vaccination zone in which vaccination is to be carried out and the 
location of establishments keeping animals to be vaccinated, when available and applicable, including maps; 
(d) where relevant, the detailed geographic description of the peri-vaccination zone surrounding the vaccination 
zone, and the location of establishments keeping animals of listed species, when available, including maps; 
(e) the number of establishments keeping animals of listed species located in the vaccination zone and the number 
of establishments in which vaccination is to be carried out, if different; 
(f) 
the estimated number of kept animals of listed species to be vaccinated, their categories and, when relevant, their 
age; 
(g) intended final use of vaccinated animals and products; 
(h) categories of animals exempted from vaccination and reasoning; 
(i) 
the arrangements to administer the vaccine and the system to supervise the administration of the vaccine; 
(j) 
the envisaged duration of the vaccination, from the start of the vaccination to the end of the surveillance carried 
out after vaccination; 
(k) the summary of the characteristics of the vaccine, including the name of the product(s) and the name of the 
manufacturer(s), and routes of administration; 
(l) 
indication if the vaccine is used in accordance with Article 110(2) of Regulation (EU) 2019/6; 
(m) the details of the reinforced clinical and laboratory surveillance referred to in Article 9, point 1(c) and Article 10, 
point 2(b); 
(n) the hygiene and biosecurity rules to be applied; 
(o) the record keeping system on the vaccination; 
(p) the restrictions on movements of vaccinated animals and products thereof and other risk-mitigating measures to 
control the potential spread of disease to be put in place and their duration in addition to those provided for in 
this Regulation; 
(q) communication campaign to be put in place to inform operators and the public about the vaccination, including 
the safety for human consumption of products of animal origin from vaccinated animals of listed species; 
(r) other matters deemed appropriate to the situation by the competent authority.
EN 
L 52/16 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
2. Wild animals 
In case vaccination involves wild animals of listed species, the official vaccination plan shall include the information 
referred to in point 1, points (a), (b), (j), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o), (p) and (q), and the following information: 
(a) the detailed geographic description of the vaccination zone and the peri-vaccination zone, where relevant; 
(b) the estimated number of wild animals of listed species to be vaccinated; 
(c) the measures to be adopted to avoid a high number of movements of wild animals; 
(d) the vaccination periods or seasons where relevant; 
(e) the vaccine delivery system. 
PART 2 
SIMPLIFIED INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE OFFICIAL VACCINATION PLAN 
(a) The description and the results of the assessment performed in accordance with Annex II, including the 
epidemiological situation and the relevant information used as a basis for the assessment; 
(b) the main objectives and targets with the chosen vaccination strategy and the official vaccination plan; 
(c) the number of establishments keeping animals of listed species to be vaccinated; 
(d) the estimated number of kept animals of listed species to be vaccinated, their categories and, when relevant, their 
age; 
(e) categories of animals exempted from vaccination and reasons for exempting them; 
(f) the system to supervise the administration of the vaccine; 
(g) the summary of the characteristics of the vaccine, including the name of the products and the name of the 
manufacturers;
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/17

 
ANNEX IV 
Preliminary information to be provided to other Member States and the Commission prior to vaccination 
The Member State intending to apply a vaccination against category A diseases shall provide the following information 
before starting the vaccination: 
(a) brief reasoning to start the vaccination; 
(b) chosen strategy and motivation; 
(c) species of animals that will be vaccinated, specifying if wild animals will be included; 
(d) estimated number of animals that will be vaccinated; 
(e) estimated duration of the vaccination; 
(f) type and commercial name of the vaccine applied, including the indication if the vaccine will be used in accordance 
with Article 110(2) of Regulation (EU) 2019/6; 
(g) description of the estimated vaccination zone.
EN 
L 52/18 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
ANNEX V 
Minimum records on vaccination 
1. Kept animals 
— Individual identification, where relevant in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2019/2035, 
— species and category, 
— Registration number of the establishment, 
— number of vaccinated animals, 
— number of vaccine doses administered, 
— type and name of the vaccine, 
— date of vaccination, 
— date of killing (where applicable), 
— date and method of disposal of the carcass (where applicable). 
2. Wild animals 
— Regions or zones where wild animals are vaccinated, 
— vaccine delivery system, 
— period of vaccination, 
— type and name of the vaccine, 
— number of vaccine doses distributed, 
— methods to monitor vaccination effectiveness and methods of disease surveillance in vaccinated zones.
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/19

 
ANNEX VI 
Minimum information to be provided by the competent authority to other Member States and the Commission 
on the implementation of vaccination 
1. Minimum information to be provided in the reports 
Emergency vaccination strategy 
Preventive vaccination 
strategy 
Suppressive 
vaccination 
Protective vaccination 
In wild animals 
Description of vaccination and peri- 
vaccination zones 
WHERE 
APPLICABLE 
YES 
YES 
WHERE 
APPLICABLE 
Total number of establishments and 
total number of establishments in each 
vaccination zone (where applicable) 
YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
Total number of animals to be 
vaccinated, (by species) and total 
number of animals in each vaccination 
zone (where applicable). 
YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
Total number of vaccinated 
establishments (in each vaccination zone 
where applicable) 
YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
Total number of vaccinated animals, by 
species, (in each vaccination zone, where 
applicable) 
YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
Total number of doses administered or 
distributed 
YES 
YES 
YES 
YES 
Expected date for completing the 
vaccination 
NO 
YES 
YES 
YES 
Total number of vaccinated animals 
killed. 
YES 
WHERE 
APPLICABLE 
NO 
NO 
Dates of killing of the vaccinated 
animals (suppressive vaccination) or 
expected date of completion of killing 
(protective vaccination, where 
applicable) 
YES 
WHERE 
APPLICABLE 
NO 
NO
EN 
L 52/20 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
2. Time points and minimum frequency to submit the reports 
Emergency vaccination strategy 
Preventive vaccination 
Suppressive vaccination 
Protective vaccination 
In wild animals 
Within 7 days from the end of the 
administration of the vaccine to all 
animals included in the official 
vaccination plan 
At least once every two 
weeks for the first month 
of vaccination and once 
a month for the rest of 
the duration of the 
vaccination for one-year 
or shorter vaccination 
campaigns 
At least once a month 
for one-year or shorter 
vaccination campaigns 
Once a year 
At least once at the end 
of the annual vaccination 
for multi-year vacci­
nation campaigns 
At least every 6 months 
for multi-year vacci­
nation campaigns
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/21

 
ANNEX VII 
Foot and mouth disease (FMD) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF FMD 
1. Type of vaccine to be used or prioritised: Inactivated vaccines (live attenuated vaccines shall not be used). 
2. Size of the peri-vaccination zone: The peri-vaccination zone shall be of at least 10 km width from the perimeters of 
the vaccination zone. 
3. Minimum coverage: to be adapted according to the circulating strain, the effectiveness of biosecurity in estab­
lishments situated in the vaccination zone and animal density. As a baseline, vaccine coverage should aim for at 
least 80 % of establishments in the vaccination zone and for 80 % of the targeted animals per each species kept in 
each of those establishments selected for the application of vaccination. 
4. Targeted animals/species: Listed species in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED CLINICAL AND LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN THE VACCINATION AND PERI-VACCINATION ZONES DURING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF FMD 
The following clinical and laboratory surveillance shall be implemented in the vaccination zone to identify estab­
lishments keeping animals of listed species that had contact with the FMD virus without showing clinical signs of 
the disease during the period starting not earlier than 30 days after the completion of emergency protective vaccination. 
This surveillance shall include: 
1. a clinical examination of one of the following types: 
(a) clinical examination of all animals of listed species kept in all establishments in the vaccination zone; 
(b) clinical examination targeted at particular species likely to exhibit clear clinical signs, if the competent authority 
decides so, based on the positive outcome of a risk assessment; 
2. laboratory examination in line with the following conditions: 
(a) for antibodies against non-structural proteins of the FMD virus carried out on samples taken from vaccinated 
animals of listed species and their non-vaccinated offspring in all establishments in the vaccination zone; 
(b) to detect infection with the FMD virus, either by an assay for antibodies against non-structural proteins of the 
FMD virus, or by another approved method, carried out on samples collected in accordance with Annex I to 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 from all establishments in the vaccination zone in which vaccination was 
not carried out; 
(c) carried out for each establishment tested under point (a) according to a sample size that shall be calculated to 
detect a within-establishment animal prevalence of 5 % or less, with a 95 % confidence, in both vaccinated and 
non-vaccinated animals; 
(d) where the competent authority uses in addition sentinel animals introduced in affected establishments as part of 
their repopulation, the conditions for repopulation of affected establishments provided for in Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687 shall be taken into account.
EN 
L 52/22 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
PART 3 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS OF ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS AND FOR GRANTING 
A DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13, IN VACCINATION ZONES WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF FMD IS CARRIED OUT 
1. 
Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements: vaccinated animals and products thereof, destined to 
be moved to other Member States, until the end of the recovery period laid down in PART 4: 
(a) animals of listed species from establishments located in the vaccination zone; 
(b) fresh meat, raw milk and colostrum obtained from vaccinated animals; 
(c) dairy products and colostrum-based products produced from milk and colostrum obtained from vaccinated 
animals; 
2. 
Germinal products subject to prohibitions of collection: semen for artificial insemination from donor animals of 
listed species kept in approved germinal product establishments located in the vaccination zone, until the end of 
the recovery period laid down in Part 4. 
3. 
Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), and 
Article 13(4), point (b). 
3.1. From the start of the emergency protective vaccination until at least 30 days have elapsed following its completion, 
the following may be authorised: 
(a) movements for slaughter of kept animals of listed species from establishments located in the vaccination zone 
to a slaughterhouse located within or as close as possible to the vaccination zone, within the same Member 
State, under the same conditions as those laid down in Article 24, Article 28(2), (3), (4), (5) and (7) and 
Article 29(1) and (2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(b) movements of fresh meat and raw milk obtained from vaccinated animals under the same conditions as those 
provided for in Article 24, Article 28(2), (3), (4), (6) and (7) and Article 33(1), point (a), and Article 33(2) of 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(c) movements of dairy products produced from milk obtained from vaccinated animals if they have undergone an 
effective treatment for FMD in accordance with Annex VII to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 and only if 
during the production process, storage and transport they have been separated from products not eligible for 
dispatch outside the vaccination zone pursuant to this Regulation; 
(d) collection of semen for artificial insemination from donor animals of listed species kept in approved germinal 
product establishments located in the vaccination zone for the production of frozen semen, under the 
following conditions: 
(i) it is ensured that the semen collected during this period is stored separately for at least 30 days; 
(ii) prior to dispatch of the semen, either: 
— the donor animal has not been vaccinated and the same conditions as those set out in Article 32, 
points (b) and (c), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 are fulfilled, or 
— the donor animal has been vaccinated following a negative result to a laboratory examination for the 
detection of antibodies against the FMD virus carried out prior to vaccination, and 
— a negative result has been achieved in a laboratory examination for the detection of either virus or 
viral genome, or in an approved test for the detection of antibodies against non-structural proteins 
of the FMD virus, carried out at the end of the quarantine period for the semen on samples taken 
from all animals of listed species present at that time in the approved germinal product 
establishment, and
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/23

 
— the semen complies with the conditions set out in Part 5, Chapter I, point 3, of Annex II to 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/686. 
3.2. During the period starting not earlier than 30 days after the completion of emergency protective vaccination until 
completion of the specific surveillance provided for in Part 2 of this Annex, the following may be authorised: 
(a) movements for slaughter of kept animals of listed species kept in the vaccination zone to a slaughterhouse 
located within or outside the vaccination zone but within the same Member State, under the same conditions 
as those provided for in Article 24 and Article 28(5) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(b) movements of fresh meat, excluding offal, obtained from vaccinated ungulates of listed species, other than 
porcine animals, if the fresh meat: 
— complies with the same conditions as those set out in Article 28(6) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687, 
— has been de-boned and the main accessible lymph nodes have been removed, 
— is, or has been obtained from, carcasses that have been subjected to a maturation process at a temperature 
of more than 2 °C for at least 24 hours and the pH value recorded in the middle of the Longissimus dorsi 
muscle was less than 6,0; 
(c) movements of fresh meat obtained from ungulates of listed species, other than porcine animals, kept and 
slaughtered outside the vaccination zone; 
(d) movements of fresh meat, excluding offal, obtained from vaccinated porcine animals slaughtered in this period, 
if the fresh meat was produced under the conditions provided for in Article 24, Article 28(2), (3), (4), (6) 
and (7) and Article 33(1), point (a), and Article 33(2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(e) movements of raw milk obtained from vaccinated animals under the same conditions as those provided for in 
Article 24, Article 28(2), (3), (4), (6) and (7) and Article 33(1), point (a), and Article 33(2), point (b), of 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(f) movements of dairy products obtained from vaccinated animals if those dairy products have undergone an 
effective treatment against FMD in accordance with Annex VII to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 and 
only if during the production process, storage and transport have been separated from products not eligible for 
dispatch outside the vaccination zone pursuant to this Regulation. 
(g) collection of semen for artificial insemination from donor animals of listed species kept in approved germinal 
product establishments located in the vaccination zone under the conditions set out in point 3.1, subpoint (d). 
3.3. After the completion of the specific surveillance provided for in Part 2 of this Annex and until the end of the 
recovery period provided for in Part 4 of this Annex, the following may be authorised: 
(a) movements for slaughter of animals of listed species kept in the vaccination zone to a slaughterhouse located 
within or out of the vaccination zone, but within the same Member State, under the same conditions as those 
set out in Article 24 and Article 28(5) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(b) movements of unvaccinated animals of listed species in accordance with the following provisions: 
(i) within 24 hours preceding loading, all animals of listed species on the establishment have been subjected 
to clinical examination and have not shown clinical signs of FMD, 
(ii) the animals have completed a standstill on the establishment of origin of at least 30 days during which no 
animal of listed species has been introduced into the establishment,
EN 
L 52/24 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
(iii) the animals intended for transport were either individually subjected, with negative results, to tests for the 
detection of antibodies against the FMD virus at the end of the isolation period, or a serological survey was 
completed on that establishment irrespective of the species concerned; 
(iv) the animals were not exposed to any source of infection during their transportation from the establishment 
of origin to the place of destination, that shall be located in the same Member State; 
(c) movements of non-vaccinated calves, offspring of vaccinated cows to: 
(i) an establishment within the vaccination zone of the same health status as the establishment of origin; 
(ii) a slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter; 
(iii) an establishment designated by the competent authority, from which the offspring are to be sent directly to 
a slaughterhouse; 
(iv) any establishment, after having obtained a negative result in a serological test for the detection of antibody 
against the FMD virus carried out on a sample of blood taken prior to dispatch from the establishment of 
origin; 
(d) movements of fresh meat, meat products, raw milk, dairy products in accordance with point 3.2, points (b) 
to (f); 
(e) collection of semen in accordance with point 3.1, point (d) 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR FMD FOLLOWING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION 
Recovery period 
Type of surveillance to demonstrate the absence of 
occurrence of FMD 
3 months after the last remaining vaccinated animal in the 
vaccination zone has been killed or slaughtered, excluding 
animals referred to in Article 13(2) of Regulation (EU) 
2020/687 
Clinical and laboratory 
The relevant recommendations in the FMD Chapter, 30th edition 2022, of the WOAH Terrestrial Animal Health Code 
are met
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/25

 
ANNEX VIII 
Infection with Rift valley fever virus (RVF) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF RVF 
1. Size of the vaccination zone: 50 km radius around affected establishments or ring vaccination between 20 and 
50 km. 
2. Size of the peri-vaccination zone: No specific rules. 
3. Type of vaccine to be used or prioritised: Inactivated vaccines. Live attenuated vaccines may only be used in endemic 
areas. 
4. Minimum coverage: No specific rules. 
5. Targeted animals/species: Animals of listed species in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882 
kept in the vaccination zone, including at least bovine, ovine, caprine and camelid animals. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED CLINICAL AND LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN THE VACCINATION AND PERI-VACCINATION ZONES DURING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF RVF 
Passive surveillance: in the vaccination and peri-vaccination zones, enhanced passive surveillance on abortions, stillbirths 
and neonatal mortality during summer and autumn (during the peak of and end of the vector season). 
PART 3 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS OF ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS AND FOR GRANTING 
A DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13, IN A VACCINATION ZONE WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF RVF IS CARRIED OUT 
1. Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements: vaccinated animals and products thereof, including 
semen, embryos and oocytes destined to be moved to other Member States. 
2. Germinal products subject to prohibition of collection: semen, oocytes and embryo from animals of listed species. 
3. Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), and 
Article 13(4), point (b). Movements that may be authorised. 
Movements of vaccinated animals and products thereof, including semen, embryos and oocytes to another Member 
State for which the competent authority of the Member State of destination grants a specific authorisation for entry 
of each consignment of vaccinated animals or products thereof. This authorisation may be based on the results of 
laboratory examinations. 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR RVF 
No additional disease-specific requirements
EN 
L 52/26 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
ANNEX IX 
Infection with lumpy skin disease virus (LSD) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF LSD 
1. 
Types of vaccination zones: 
1.1. Vaccination zone I: vaccination zone where emergency protective vaccination is implemented in areas where LSD 
has not been confirmed; 
1.2. Vaccination zone II: vaccination zone where emergency protective vaccination is implemented in areas where 
outbreaks of LSD have been confirmed. 
2. 
Size of vaccination zone II: Vaccination zone II shall cover at least the areas included in the protection, 
surveillance and further restricted zones established after the confirmation of that disease in accordance with 
Article 21 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687. 
3. 
Size of the peri-vaccination zone: At least 20 km width from the perimeters of the vaccination zones I and II. 
4. 
Type of vaccine to be used or prioritised: to prioritise the use of homologous vaccines. 
5. 
Minimum coverage: vaccine coverage of at least 95 % of the establishments keeping bovine animals representing at 
least 75 % of the bovine animals population of the vaccination zone. 
6. 
Targeted animals/species: All bovine animals and their offspring kept in the vaccination zone. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED CLINICAL AND LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN THE VACCINATION AND PERI-VACCINATION ZONES DURING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF LSD 
No additional disease-specific requirements 
PART 3 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS OF ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS AND FOR GRANTING 
A DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13, IN VACCINATION ZONES WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF LSD IS CARRIED OUT 
1. 
Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements from establishments located in vaccination 
zones I and II, until the end of the recovery period laid down in Part 4: 
(a) bovine animals; 
(b) germinal products from bovine animals; 
(c) unprocessed animal by-products from bovine animals other than milk, colostrum, dairy products and 
colostrum-based products intended for animal feed. 
2. 
Germinal products subject to prohibition of collection: none. 
3. 
Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), and 
Article 13(4), point (b). Movements that may be authorised. 
3.1. Movements of bovine animals from vaccination zone I: 
Movements of consignments of bovine animals may be authorised from establishments located in vaccination 
zone I to: 
(a) vaccination zones I or II of the same or another Member State provided that all of the following conditions are 
fulfilled: 
(i) the bovine animals in the consignment must have been vaccinated against LSD at least 28 days prior to 
the date of dispatch and remain within the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the 
vaccine manufacturer on that date;
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/27

 
(ii) all the other bovine animals kept in the same establishment of origin as the bovine animals in the 
consignment must have been vaccinated against LSD at least 28 days prior to the date of dispatch and 
remain within the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the vaccine manufacturer on 
that date or remain within the immunity period induced by previous vaccination or maternal immunity 
on the date of dispatch; 
(iii) the bovine animals in the consignment must have been kept in their establishment of origin since birth or 
for a continuous period of at least 28 days prior to the date of dispatch; and 
— a clinical examination was carried out, with favourable results, of all bovine animals kept in the 
establishment of origin of such consignments, including the bovine animals in such consignments, 
— if necessary, a laboratory examination was carried out, with favourable results, of bovine animals kept 
in the establishment of origin of such consignments, including the bovine animals in such consign­
ments; 
(b) any destination, in the same Member State or in other Member States, if, in addition to the conditions laid 
down in point (a) (ii) and (iii), all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) the bovine animals in the consignment must have been vaccinated against LSD at least 60 days prior to 
the date of dispatch and remain within the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the 
vaccine manufacturer on the date of dispatch; 
(ii) within a radius of at least 20 km around the establishment of origin of such consignments, there have 
been no outbreaks of LSD during a period of at least three months prior to the date of dispatch; and 
(iii) all bovine animals kept in 50 km around the establishment of origin of the consignment must have been 
vaccinated or revaccinated against LSD at least 60 days prior to the date of dispatch and remain within 
the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the vaccine manufacturer on that date or 
within the immunity period induced by maternal immunity; 
(c) any destination, in other Member States or territories in third countries, if, in addition to the conditions laid 
down in point (a), the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) the animals must comply with any animal health guarantee, based on the favourable outcome of a risk 
assessment of measures against the spread of LSD required by the competent authority of the Member 
State of origin and approved by the competent authority of the Member States of passage and destination, 
prior to the date of dispatch; 
(ii) there must have been no confirmed outbreaks of LSD within a radius of at least 20 km around the 
establishment of origin of such consignments for a period of at least three months prior to the date of 
dispatch; and 
(iii) all bovine animals kept in 50 km around the establishment of origin of the consignment must have been 
vaccinated or revaccinated against LSD at least 60 days prior to the date of dispatch and remain within 
the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the vaccine manufacturer on that date or 
within the immunity period induced by maternal immunity. 
3.2. Movements of bovine animals from vaccination zone II: 
Movements of consignments of bovine animals may be authorised from establishments located in vaccination 
zone II to: 
(a) any destination, in the same Member State and other Member States, provided that all of the following 
conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) the bovine animals in the consignment shall comply with any animal health guarantee, based on the 
favourable outcome of a risk assessment of measures against the spread of LSD required by the competent 
authority of the Member State of origin and approved by the competent authority of the Member States of 
passage and destination, prior to the date of dispatch; 
(ii) the bovine animals in the consignment must have been vaccinated against LSD at least 28 days prior to 
the date of dispatch and remain within the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the 
vaccine manufacturer on that date;
EN 
L 52/28 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
(iii) all other bovine animals kept in the same establishment of origin as the bovine animals in the 
consignment must have been vaccinated against LSD at least 28 days prior to the date of dispatch and 
remain within the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the vaccine manufacturer on 
that date or remain within the immunity period induced by previous vaccination or maternal immunity 
on that date; 
(iv) the following examinations were carried out: 
— a clinical examination, with favourable results, of all bovine animals kept in the establishment of origin 
of such consignments, including the bovine animals in such consignments, 
— if necessary, a laboratory examination, with favourable results, of bovine animals kept in the estab­
lishment of origin of such consignments, including the bovine animals in such consignments; 
(v) the bovine animals must have been resident since birth, or for a period of at least 28 days prior to the 
date of dispatch, in an establishment where, within a radius of at least 20 km, no outbreak of LSD has 
been confirmed during the three months prior to the date of dispatch; 
(vi) all bovine animals in 50 km around the establishment of origin of the consignment must have been 
vaccinated or revaccinated against LSD, at least 60 days prior to the date of dispatch and remain within 
the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the vaccine manufacturer on that date or 
within the immunity period induced by maternal immunity; 
(b) any destination located within another vaccination zone II of the same Member State, provided that all of the 
following conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) all other bovine animals kept in the establishment of origin of such consignments must have been 
vaccinated against LSD at least 28 days prior to the date of dispatch and remain within the immunity 
period in accordance with the instructions of the vaccine manufacturer on that date or remain within the 
immunity period induced by previous vaccination or maternal immunity on that date; and 
(ii) the bovine animals must have been vaccinated against LSD at least 28 days prior to the date of dispatch 
and remain within the immunity period in accordance with the instructions of the vaccine manufacturer 
on that date or are unvaccinated offspring less than four months old, born to dams vaccinated at least 
28 days prior to parturition that remained within the immunity period according to the vaccine manu­
facturer on the date of parturition, and may be moved to another establishment. 
3.3. Movements of consignments of bovine animals from vaccination zones I and II to a slaughterhouse outside those 
zones: 
Movements of consignments of bovine animals may be authorised from vaccination zones I and II to a slaught­
erhouse outside of those zones, located in the territory of the same Member State, provided that the bovine 
animals are moved for the purposes of immediate slaughter in compliance with the general conditions laid down 
in Article 28(2) to (5) and Article 28(7) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687. 
3.4. Movements of consignments of semen, oocytes and embryos of bovine animals from vaccination 
zones I and II: 
3.4.1. Movements of consignments of semen, oocytes and embryos of bovine animals may be authorised from 
approved germinal product establishments or other establishments located in vaccination zone I to: 
(a) vaccination zones I or II of the same Member State provided that all of the following conditions are 
fulfilled: 
(i) the donor animals were either: 
— vaccinated and revaccinated against LSD according to the manufacturer’s instructions of the 
vaccine used, and the first vaccination must have been administered at least 60 days prior to 
the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryo, or 
— subjected, with negative results, to a serological test to detect specific antibodies against LSD 
virus on the day of the collection and at least 28 days after the period of collection as regards 
semen or on the day of collection as regards embryos and oocytes;
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/29

 
(ii) the donor animals were kept, during the 60 days prior to the date of collection of the semen, 
oocytes or embryos, in an artificial insemination centre or other appropriate establishment where, 
within a radius of at least 20 km, no outbreak of LSD has been confirmed during the three months 
prior to the date of collection of the semen, oocytes or embryos; 
(iii) the donor animals were clinically checked 28 days prior to the date of collection, as well as 
throughout the entire collection period, and did not show any clinical symptoms of LSD; 
(b) any destination located in another vaccination zone I or II of another Member State, provided that, in 
addition to the conditions laid down in point (a), all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) the donor animals were subjected, with negative results, to a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test to 
detect LSD conducted on blood samples collected at the commencement of collection of the semen 
and at least every 14 days thereafter during the semen collection period or on the day of collection 
for embryos and oocytes; 
(ii) the semen was subjected, with negative results, to a PCR test to detect LSD; 
(c) any destination located in the same or another Member State or, in case of a vaccination zone I, to a 
third country provided that, in addition to the conditions laid down in point (a), the donor animals 
comply with any other appropriate animal health guarantees, based on a positive outcome of a risk 
assessment of the impact of such dispatch and of the measures against the spread of LSD, required by 
the competent authority of the Member State of the establishment of origin and approved by the 
competent authorities of the Member States of the places of passage and of destination, prior to the 
dispatch of such semen, oocytes or embryos. 
3.4.2. Movements of consignments of semen, oocytes and embryos of bovine animals, may be authorised from 
approved germinal product establishments or other establishments located in a vaccination zone II to any 
destination located in another vaccination zone II of the same Member State. 
3.5. Movements of consignments of unprocessed animal by-products from bovine animals from vaccination zones I: 
Movements of consignments of unprocessed animal by-products from bovine animals may be authorised from 
establishments located in a vaccination zone I to: 
(a) any destination located in the same Member State or to any destination located in vaccination zones I or II of 
another Member State; 
(b) in the case of consignments of hides and skins, any destination located in any area of the same or another 
Member State or third country provided that one of the following conditions is fulfilled: 
(i) the treated hides and skins have been subjected to one of the treatments referred to in point 28(b) to (e) of 
Annex I to Commission Regulation (EU) No 142/2011 ( 1 ); or 
(ii) the treated hides and skin have been subjected to one of the treatments set out in Section XIV, Chapter I, 
point (4)(b)(ii), of Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council ( 2 ), and have undergone all precautions to avoid recontamination with pathogenic agents after 
treatment.
EN 
L 52/30 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023 
( 1 ) Commission Regulation (EU) No 142/2011 of 25 February 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council laying down health rules as regards animal by-products and derived products not intended for human 
consumption and implementing Council Directive 97/78/EC as regards certain samples and items exempt from veterinary checks at 
the border under that Directive (OJ L 54, 26.2.2011, p. 1). 
( 2 ) Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific hygiene rules 
for food of animal origin (OJ L 139, 30.4.2004, p. 55).

 
3.6. Movements of consignments of unprocessed animal by-products from bovine animals from vaccination zones II: 
Movements of consignments of unprocessed animal by-products from bovine animals may be authorised from 
establishments located in a vaccination zone II to: 
(a) in the case of unprocessed animal by-products other than hides and skins, any destination located in the same 
Member State or any destination located in vaccination zones I or II of another Member State provided that 
the unprocessed animal by-products are dispatched under the official supervision of the competent authorities 
for processing or disposal in a plant approved in accordance with Article 24 of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 
of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 3 ); 
(b) in the case of hides and skins of bovine animals: 
(i) any destination located in a vaccination zone II of the same or another Member State provided that they 
are untreated raw hides and skins destined for human consumption or untreated hides and skins not 
intended for human consumption dispatched under the official supervision of the competent authorities 
for processing or disposal in a plant approved in accordance with Article 24 of Regulation (EC) 
No 1069/2009; 
(ii) any destination located in the same or another Member State provided that the conditions laid down in 
point 3.5(b), are fulfilled; 
(c) in the case of colostrum, milk and dairy products, any destination located in any area of the same or another 
Member State provided that they have been subjected to a risk-mitigating treatment for LSD, as set out in 
Annex VII to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687. 
3.7. Conditions related to the means of transport used for the movement of consignments of bovine animals and 
unprocessed animal by-products from vaccination zones I and II outside of those zones when granting relevant 
derogations: 
(a) in the case of transport of bovine animals, the means of transport: 
(i) comply with the requirements laid down in Article 24(1) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; and 
(ii) are cleaned and disinfected in accordance with Article 24(2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 under 
the control or supervision of the competent authority of the Member State; 
(b) only include bovine animals or unprocessed animal by-products or untreated hides and skins of the same 
health status. 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR LSD FOLLOWING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION 
Recovery period 
Type of surveillance to demonstrate the 
absence of occurrence of LSD 
14 months after the slaughter or killing of the last case, or after the last 
vaccination if emergency protective vaccination has been used (in vaccination 
zone II), whichever occurred last, and during which period clinical and 
laboratory surveillance has demonstrated no occurrence of LSD 
Clinical and laboratory (virological and 
serological) 
26 months after the slaughter or killing of the last case, or after the last 
vaccination if emergency protective vaccination has been used (in vaccination 
zone II), whichever occurred last, and during which period clinical 
surveillance alone has demonstrated no occurrence of LSD 
Clinical 
8 months after the last vaccination if emergency protective vaccination has 
been used (in vaccination zone I), and during which period clinical and 
laboratory surveillance has demonstrated no occurrence of LSD 
Clinical and laboratory (virological and 
serological)
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/31 
( 3 ) Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down health rules as 
regards animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and repealing Regulation (EC) 
No 1774/2002 (Animal by-products Regulation) (OJ L 300, 14.11.2009, p. 1).

 
ANNEX X 
Infection with peste des petits ruminants virus (PPR) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF PPR 
1. Size of the vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
2. Size of the peri-vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
3. Type of vaccine to be used or prioritised: No specific conditions 
4. Minimum coverage: No specific conditions. 
5. Targeted animals/species: Animals of listed species in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882 
kept in the vaccination zone, including at least ovine and caprine animals. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED CLINICAL AND LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN THE VACCINATION AND PERI-VACCINATION ZONES DURING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF PPR 
Passive surveillance: in the vaccination and peri-vaccination zones, enhanced passive surveillance for PPR signs and 
symptoms as well as for increased mortality in small ruminants. 
PART 3 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS OF ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS AND FOR GRANTING 
A DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13, IN A VACCINATION ZONE WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF PPR IS CARRIED OUT 
1. 
Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements until the end of the recovery period laid down in 
PART 4 
The same animals and products, located in the vaccination zones, as those subject to restrictions in establishments 
located in protection and surveillance zones established in the event of an outbreak of PPR provided for in 
Article 27 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 and with the same restrictions. 
2. 
Germinal products subject to prohibition of collection: semen, oocytes and embryos from animals of listed species, 
until the end of the recovery period. 
3. 
Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), and 
Article 13(4), point (b). Movements that may be authorised. 
3.1. Movements of vaccinated animals and products thereof from establishments located in the vaccination zone, under 
the same general conditions as those provided for in Article 43 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687, and only 
in the cases covered by and under the same specific conditions as those provided for in Articles 44, 45, 48, 49, 51 
and 53 of that Regulation in relation to the surveillance zone. 
3.2. Movements of vaccinated animals and products thereof from establishments located in the vaccination zone, 
provided that those establishments do not keep vaccinated animals any more.
EN 
L 52/32 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
3.3. Movements of vaccinated animals and products thereof from establishments located in the vaccination zone after 
2 years have elapsed from cessation of vaccination. 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR PPR FOLLOWING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION 
Recovery period 
Type of surveillance to demonstrate the 
absence of occurrence of PPR 
6 months after the slaughter or killing of the last case and of all vaccinated 
animals if emergency protective vaccination has been used, and during which 
period clinical and laboratory surveillance has demonstrated no occurrence of 
PPR 
Clinical and laboratory (virological and 
serological) 
24 months after the slaughter or killing of the last case, or after the last 
vaccination if emergency protective vaccination has been used, whichever 
occurred last, and during which period clinical and laboratory surveillance 
has demonstrated no occurrence of PPR 
Clinical and laboratory (virological and 
serological)
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/33

 
ANNEX XI 
African horse sickness (AHS) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF AHS 
1. Type of vaccine to be used or prioritised: Monovalent vaccines or, if monovalent vaccines are not available, poly­
valent vaccines with the least possible number of valences authorised by the competent authority. 
2. Size of the vaccination zone: infected establishments subject to the derogation provided for in Annex III to Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687 and establishments located within a 20 km radius around the infected establishments 
(included in the protection zone). A vaccination zone may cover the entire protection zone. Any vaccination in the 
surveillance zone is prohibited. 
3. Size of the peri-vaccination zone: No specific conditions 
4. Minimum coverage: No specific conditions 
5. Targeted animals/species: all equine animals in the vaccination zone, in accordance with the instruction of the 
vaccine manufacturer/the marketing authorisation. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED CLINICAL AND LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN THE VACCINATION AND PERI-VACCINATION ZONES DURING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF AHS 
Clinical and laboratory surveillance shall be carried out in the vaccination zone. This surveillance shall include at least: 
1. a clinical examination of equine animals every 3 to 7 days, or each day in the case of severe clinical cases, since such 
cases may need to be euthanised because of animal welfare reasons; 
2. a laboratory surveillance of equine animals (testing should be carried out on samples taken at intervals of 3 to 7 days 
as the minimum time required to capture the minimum incubation period after which an infected animal may test 
positive), and the diagnostic protocol shall be set up according to the vaccine used (a serological surveillance, in case 
a DIVA vaccine is used, or a virological surveillance). The surveillance is necessary to detect the AHS virus types 
circulating to ensure that all circulating serotypes are included in the official vaccination plan; 
3. a surveillance of Culicoides. 
PART 3 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS OF ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS AND FOR GRANTING 
A DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13, IN A VACCINATION ZONE WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF AHS IS CARRIED OUT 
1. Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements 
Equine animals and germinal products thereof from the vaccination zone until the end of the recovery period. 
2. Germinal products subject to prohibition of collection: none.
EN 
L 52/34 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
3. Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), and 
Article 13(4), point (b). 
1. The equine animal to be moved from the establishment where it was kept at the time when the vaccination was 
carried out, was vaccinated more than 40 days prior to movement; 
2. The animal referred to in point (1): 
(a) has undergone a prior identity check and clinical examination as referred to in Article 91(1), point (a), of 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/688; 
(b) showed no clinical symptoms of AHS on the day of the clinical examination; 
(c) is identified by way of a transponder and a record of vaccination against AHS is kept in its single lifetime 
document and in the computer database referred to in Article 109(1), point (d), of Regulation (EU) 2016/429; 
(d) is kept in a vector protected establishment as defined in Article 2(18) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/689 
for a period of at least 14 days prior to movement and is subjected to an agent identification test for AHS, at 
the end of this period, with a negative result, or is kept in a vector protected establishment for at least 40 days 
prior to movement; 
(e) is protected from the attack of vectors. 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR AHS FOLLOWING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION 
Recovery period 
Type of surveillance to be implemented during the recovery 
period 
12 months, since the last animal was vaccinated and 2 years 
since the last outbreak 
Clinical and serological 
The relevant recommendations in the AHS Chapter, 30th edition 2022, of the WOAH Terrestrial Animal Health Code
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/35

 
ANNEX XII 
Classical swine fever (CSF) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF CSF 
1. Size of the vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
2. Size of the peri-vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
3. Type of vaccine to be used or prioritised: Live attenuated vaccines shall be prioritised. Other vaccines may be used 
only for duly justified reasons. 
4. Minimum coverage: No specific conditions. 
5. Targeted animals/species: Animals of listed species, in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1882, 
kept in the vaccination zone. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED CLINICAL AND LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN THE VACCINATION AND PERI-VACCINATION ZONES DURING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF CSF 
No additional disease-specific requirements 
PART 3 
ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS SUBJECT TO PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS AND CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING A 
DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13 IN A VACCINATION ZONE WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF CSF IS CARRIED OUT 
1. Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements 
The following animals, germinal products and products of animal origin from establishments located in the 
vaccination zone to outside the vaccination zones: 
(a) vaccinated porcine animals; 
(b) offspring of seropositive sows; 
(c) semen, oocytes and embryos for artificial insemination from donor porcine animals kept in approved germinal 
product establishments; 
(d) fresh meat obtained from vaccinated porcine animals; 
2. Germinal products subject to prohibition of collection 
Semen, oocytes and embryos for artificial insemination from seropositive donor porcine animals kept in approved 
germinal product establishments located in the vaccination zone.
EN 
L 52/36 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
3. Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), 
and Article 13(4), point (b) 
Movements of animals and products thereof that may be authorised: 
(1) movements of vaccinated porcine animals, directly from the establishment of origin to: 
(a) a slaughterhouse located as close as possible to the vaccination zone, in the same Member State, under the 
same conditions as those provided for in Article 24, Article 28(2), (3), (4), (5) and (7) and Article 29(1) and 
(2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(b) to an animal by-product approved plant, under the same conditions as those provided for in Article 24, 
Article 28(2), (3), (4), (5) and (7) and Article 37 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(2) movement of fresh meat from vaccinated animals in accordance with Article 33(1), point (a), of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(3) all movements of animals and products thereof, laid down in point 1, provided that: 
(a) all the vaccinated porcine animals kept in the vaccination zone have been slaughtered or killed, and the fresh 
meat obtained from those animals has been disposed or processed in accordance with Article 33(1), 
point (a), of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(b) all the establishments where vaccinated porcine animals had been kept have been cleaned and disinfected in 
accordance with Article 57(1) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687; 
(c) the repopulation of the establishments above has not taken place until at least 10 days after completion of 
the cleaning and disinfection operations, and after all porcine animals in the establishments where vacci­
nation has been applied have been slaughtered or killed; 
(d) after repopulation, porcine animals in all establishments of the vaccination zone have undergone clinical and 
laboratory examinations in accordance with Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687 in order to 
detect the possible presence of CSF virus and those examinations have not taken place until at least 40 days 
have elapsed after the repopulation, during which time porcine animals are not allowed to move from that 
establishment. 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR CSF FOLLOWING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION 
Recovery period 
Type of surveillance to be implemented during the recovery 
period 
3 months after all vaccinated porcine animals have been 
slaughtered or killed, excluding kept porcine animals referred 
to in Article 13(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/687 when there 
are means, validated in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual 
of the WOAH, of distinguishing between vaccinated and 
infected kept porcine animals. 
Clinical and serological 
The relevant recommendations in the CSF Chapter, 30th edition 2022, of the WOAH Terrestrial Animal Health Code
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/37

 
ANNEX XIII 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF HPAI 
1. Size of the vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
2. Size of the peri-vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
3. Type of vaccine to be used: Vaccines that do not contain live avian influenza virus (vaccines containing live avian 
influenza virus, whether attenuated or not, shall not be used). 
4. Minimum coverage: No specific conditions. 
5. Targeted animals/species: poultry or captive birds kept in the establishments included in the official vaccination plan. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE 
VACCINATION 
AND 
PERI-VACCINATION 
ZONES 
DURING 
EMERGENCY 
PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION 
FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF HPAI 
Laboratory surveillance by collection of samples for virological testing shall be implemented every two weeks in the 
establishments where emergency protective vaccination has been carried out to detect occurrence of infection with HPAI 
field virus. The surveillance has to enable detection of a prevalence of infection with the HPAI virus in the vaccinated 
establishment of 5 % or less with a confidence level of 95 %. 
PART 3 
ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS SUBJECT TO PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS AND CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING A 
DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13 IN A VACCINATION ZONE WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF HPAI IS CARRIED OUT 
1. Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements: vaccinated poultry or captive birds and their products 
within and outside the vaccination zone. 
2. Germinal products subject to prohibition of collection: not applicable. 
3. Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), and 
Article 13(4), point (b). 
Movements of vaccinated poultry or captive birds and their products within and outside the vaccination zone may 
be authorised only in the cases covered by and under the same general and specific conditions as those provided for 
in Articles 28, 29 and 30, Article 31(1) and Articles 33, 34 and 37 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687. 
After the end of the recovery period, the measures provided for in points 2 to 4 of Part 5 shall remain in place in 
the establishments keeping vaccinated animals, as long as they keep vaccinated animals.
EN 
L 52/38 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR HPAI FOLLOWING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION 
Recovery period 
Type of surveillance to be implemented during the 
recovery period 
28 days after completion of the emergency protective 
vaccination or at the time of the lifting of the restricted zones 
established in accordance with Article 21 of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687 if this comes later. 
Reinforced surveillance in accordance with Article 9 
(1), point (c) and Part 2. 
PART 5 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR PREVENTIVE VACCINATION OF HPAI 
1. 
Type of vaccine to be used: Vaccines that do not contain live avian influenza virus (vaccines containing live 
avian influenza virus, whether attenuated or not, shall not be used). 
2. 
Reinforced surveillance to be implemented in case of preventive vaccination: 
2.1. enhanced passive surveillance shall be implemented in the vaccinated establishments by weekly virological 
testing of a representative sample of dead birds collected within one week; 
2.2. after the start of vaccination, the following active surveillance has to be carried out by an official veterinarian 
in vaccinated establishments at least every 30 days to detect occurrence of infection with HPAI field virus: 
(a) a clinical examination that shall include a check of the production records and health records of the 
establishment in each epidemiological unit, including an evaluation of its clinical history and clinical 
examinations of the poultry or captive birds; 
(b) a collection of representative samples for laboratory surveillance by serological or virological testing to 
enable detection of a prevalence of HPAI virus infection in the epidemiological unit of 5 % with a 
confidence level of 95 %, using appropriate methods and protocols that allow early detection of the 
virus and taking into account the specific characteristics of the vaccine used; 
2.3. Vaccinated captive birds from confined establishments are exempted from the surveillance requested in 
point 2.2, subpoint (b). 
2.4. The measures provided for in points 2.1 and 2.2 shall remain in place in the establishments keeping 
vaccinated animals as long as they keep vaccinated animals. 
3. 
Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements in accordance with Article 14(1): vaccinated poultry or 
captive birds and their products 
4. 
Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 14(2), point (b). 
4.1. Conditions for granting a derogation for movements of vaccinated poultry or captive birds including day-old 
chicks and hatching eggs derived from such poultry or captive birds: 
(a) They are vaccinated poultry or captive birds for which the results of the reinforced passive and active 
surveillance, implemented in accordance with point (2) are negative for detection of infection with HPAI 
field virus or day-old chicks and hatching eggs derived from such poultry or captive birds
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/39

 
and 
(i) in case of poultry, these are moved to a slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter; or 
they are moved from their establishments to other establishments: 
(ii) where vaccination is carried out; or 
(iii) where only vaccinated poultry or captive birds are kept; or 
(iv) where complete separation between vaccinated and non-vaccinated poultry or captive birds can be 
ensured; 
and 
(v) the moved poultry or captive birds remain in the establishment of destination, referred to in subpoints (ii), 
(iii) or (iv), for at least 21 days, unless these are poultry moved from the establishment of destination to a 
slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter; 
(vi) the poultry or captive birds, including day-old chicks and hatching eggs derived from such poultry or 
captive birds, referred to in subpoints (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) are not moved to another Member State; 
or 
(b) they are vaccinated captive birds from confined establishments moved to a confined establishment in another 
Member State provided that: 
(i) approval of such type of movements has been granted by the competent authority of the Member State of 
destination; 
(ii) they have been subjected to a virological test with negative results within 72 hours before movement; 
or 
(c) they are vaccinated poultry sent for immediate slaughter to another Member State, provided that: 
(i) the surveillance applied in the establishment of origin in accordance with point (2) has favourable results; 
(ii) poultry of the consignment to be dispatched were clinically inspected with favourable results by an official 
veterinarian within 72 hours before the time of loading, and, in case of poultry of Anseriforme species, 
favourable results were obtained on virological tests performed on samples taken within 72 hours prior to 
the time of departure from 20 birds from that consignment; 
or 
(d) they are hatching eggs derived from vaccinated poultry or captive birds which: 
(i) originate from a vaccinated breeding flock for which the reinforced passive and active surveillance in 
accordance with point (2) has favourable results; 
(ii) have been disinfected before dispatch in accordance with a method approved by the competent authority; 
(iii) are transported directly to the hatchery of destination;
EN 
L 52/40 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023

 
(iv) are traceable within the hatchery; 
(v) in case they are moved to another Member State, in addition to the requirements in subpoints (i) to (iv), 
the Member State of destination has informed the Commission and the other Member States that such 
movements are authorised; 
or 
(e) they are day-old chicks derived from vaccinated poultry which: 
(i) originate from a vaccinated breeding flock for which the reinforced passive and active surveillance in 
accordance with point (2) has favourable results; 
(ii) are placed in a poultry house or shed where there is no resident poultry; 
(iii) remain in the establishment of destination for at least 21 days; 
(iv) in case they are moved to another Member State, in addition to the requirements in subpoints (i) to (iii), 
the Member State of destination has informed the Commission and the other Member States that such 
movements are authorised. 
4.2. Conditions for granting a derogation for the movement of eggs for human consumption and meat derived from 
vaccinated poultry: 
(a) The eggs originate from a vaccinated flock for which the surveillance in point (2) has favourable results and 
are directly transported to: 
(i) a packing centre designated by the competent authority provided that they are packed in disposable 
packaging or in a packaging which can be cleaned and disinfected in such way as to inactivate the 
HPAI virus; 
(ii) an establishment for the manufacture of egg products as set out in Chapter II of Section X of Annex III to 
Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 to be handled and treated in accordance with Chapter XI of Annex II to 
Regulation (EC) No 852/2004. 
(b) The movement of meat obtained from poultry in accordance with the conditions laid down in points 4.1(a)(i), 
4.1(a)(v) and 4.1(c) may be authorised without further conditions;
EN 
20.2.2023 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 52/41

 
ANNEX XIV 
Infection with Newcastle disease virus (NCD) 
PART 1 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION 
AND CONTROL OF NCD 
1. Size of the vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
2. Size of the peri-vaccination zone: No specific conditions. 
3. Type of vaccine to be used: No specific conditions. 
4. Minimum coverage: all poultry of the species included in the official vaccination plan or captive birds hatched in or 
transferred to an establishment inside the vaccination zone must be or have been vaccinated. 
5. Targeted animals/species: Poultry and captive birds. 
PART 2 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE REINFORCED CLINICAL AND LABORATORY SURVEILLANCE TO BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN THE VACCINATION AND PERI-VACCINATION ZONES DURING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION FOR 
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF NCD 
No specific conditions in addition to the reinforced surveillance in accordance with Article 9(1), point (c). 
PART 3 
ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS SUBJECT TO PROHIBITION OF MOVEMENTS AND CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING A 
DEROGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 13 IN A VACCINATION ZONE WHERE EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE 
VACCINATION FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF NCD IS CARRIED OUT 
1. Animals and products subject to prohibition of movements: vaccinated poultry or captive birds and their products 
within and outside the vaccination zone. 
2. Germinal products subject to prohibition of collection: not applicable. 
3. Conditions for granting a derogation in accordance with Article 13(2), point (b)(ii), Article 13(3), point (b), and 
Article 13(4), point (b). 
Movements of vaccinated poultry or captive birds and their products within and outside the vaccination zone may be 
authorised only in the cases covered by and under the same general and specific conditions as those provided for in 
Articles 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34 and 37 of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/687. 
PART 4 
RECOVERY PERIODS FOR NCD FOLLOWING EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE VACCINATION 
Recovery period 
Type of surveillance to be implemented during the recovery 
period 
3 months after completion of the emergency protective vacci­
nation or at the time of the lifting of the restricted zones 
established in accordance with Article 21 of Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2020/687 if this comes later. 
The reinforced surveillance in accordance with 
Article 9(1), point (c)
EN 
L 52/42 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.2.2023