L 6/8
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
10.1.2020
REGULATIONS
COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2020/11
of 29 October 2019
amending Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on
classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures as regards information relating to
emergency health response
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on
classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and
1999/45/EC, and amending Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 ("), and in particular Articles 45(4) and 53(1) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)
requirements for the submission of information relating to emergency health response and for the inclusion of a
'unique formula identifier' in the supplemental information provided on the label of a hazardous mixture. The
amendments are expressed to apply from 1 January 2020, but importers and downstream users are only required to
start complying with the new rules in stages, according to a series of compliance dates depending on the use for
which a mixture is placed on the market. The first such compliance date is 1 January 2020.
(2)
After adoption of Regulation (EU) 2017/542, several drafting suggestions were made during discussions with
by that Regulation and clarifying their meaning. The new rules introduced by that Regulation should therefore be
amended to allow for a more streamlined interpretation of them, to improve internal coherence and to mitigate
some unintended consequences that have only become apparent since adoption of that Regulation. In particular,
since the unique formula identifier (UFI) may need to be updated frequently, the new rules should provide for the
UFI to be shown either on the label of the hazardous mixture or on its packaging in close proximity to the label.
Article 31(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 already also includes the option of putting all the label elements on
the packaging rather than on a label. In addition, Article 29(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 addresses the
 situation where a mixture is supplied without any packaging.
(3)
In addition to the drafting suggestions, national authorities and other stakeholders have raised certain issues
concerning the workability of the new rules introduced by Regulation (EU) 2017/542, for example the effects of
high variability in mixture composition due to the natural origin of components, the difficulty of knowing the exact
composition of products in cases involving complex supply chains, and the impact of multiple suppliers of mixture
components with the same technical properties and hazards. Once any solutions needed to address these issues
have been developed, any resulting changes to the new rules will have to be made before the first compliance date
when importers and downstream users are required to start complying with the new rules as regards mixtures for
() OJ L 353, 31.12.2008, p. 1.
(2) Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/542 of 22 March 2017 amending Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and
of the Council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures by adding an Annex on harmonised information
relating to emergency health response (OJ L 78, 23.3.2017, p. 1).

EN
Official Journal of the European Union
10.1.2020
L 6/9
consumer use. It is therefore appropriate to defer the first compliance date from 1 January 2020 to 1 January 2021
in order to allow sufficient time to develop the necessary solutions and make any necessary changes to the new rules.
This postponement does not affect the need for Member States to have their systems operational in good time before
1 January 2021 in order to allow importers and downstream users sufficient time to prepare for their submissions
before that date.
(4)
Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 should therefore be amended accordingly.
(5)
The date of application of this Regulation should be deferred in order to align it with the date of application of
Regulation (EU) 2017/542,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 is amended as follows:
(1) in Article 25, paragraph 7 is replaced by the following:
7. Where under Annex VIlI the submitter creates a unique formula identifier, it shall be included in the
supplemental information on the label in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of Part A of that Annex.';
(2) in Article 29, the following paragraph is inserted:
“4a.
Where under Annex VIl the submitter creates a unique formula identifier, the submitter may, instead of
including it in the supplemental information on the label, opt to show it in another way permitted by Section 5 of Part
A of that Annex.';
(3) Annex VIII is amended as set out in the Annex to this Regulation.
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Oficial Journal of the
European Union.
It shall apply from 1 January 2020.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 29 October 2019.
For the Commission
The President
Jean-Claude JUNCKER

L 6/10
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
10.1.2020
ANNEX
Annex VIII to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 is amended as follows:
(1) Part A is amended as follows:
(a)  Section 1.1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.1. Importers and downstream users placing on the market mixtures for consumer use, within the meaning of
Section 2.4 of Part A of this Annex, shall comply with this Annex from 1 January 2021.';
(b)  Section 2.3 is replaced by the following:
'2.3. In the case of mixtures placed on the market for industrial use only, submitters may opt for a limited
submission, as an alternative to general submission requirements, in accordance with Section 3.1.1 of Part B,
provided that a rapid access to additional detailed product information is available in accordance with
Section 1.3 of that Part.';
(c)  Section 4.1 is replaced by the following:
‘4.1 A single submission, hereinafter “group submission", may be provided for more than one mixture where all
the mixtures in a group have the same classification for health and physical hazards.';
(d)  Section 4.3 is replaced by the following:
‘4.3. By way of derogation from Section 4.2, a group submission shall also be allowed where the difference in the
composition between different mixtures in the group only concerns perfumes, provided that the total
concentration of the differing perfumes contained in each mixture does not exceed 5 %:;
(e) in Section 5.1, the third subparagraph is replaced by the following:
'By way of derogation from the second subparagraph, a new UFI shall not be required for mixtures in a group
submission containing perfumes provided that the change in the composition only concerns those perfumes or
the addition of new perfumes.';
(f) Section 5.2 is replaced by the following:
‘5.2. Instead of including the UFI in the supplemental information on the label, the submitter may opt to print or
affix it on the inner packaging located with the other label elements.
Where the inner packaging is either in such a shape or so small that it is impossible to affix the UFI on it, the
submitter may print or affix the UFI located with the other label elements on an outer packaging.
In the case of mixtures which are not packaged, the UFI shall be indicated in the Safety Data Sheet or be
included in the copy of the label elements referred to in Article 29(3), as applicable.
The UFI shall be preceded by the acronym “UFI" in capital letters followed by a colon ("UFI:") and it shall be
clearly visible, legible and indelibly marked';
(g) Section 5.3 is replaced by the following:
‘5.3 By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of Section 5.2, in the case of mixtures supplied for use at
industrial sites, the UFI may alternatively be indicated in the Safety Data Sheet:';

Official Journal of the European Union
10.1.2020
EN
L 6/11
(2) Part B is amended as follows:
(a) in Section 1.1, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following:
‘The complete trade name(s) of the mixture shall be provided, including, where relevant, brand name(s), name of
the product and variant names as they appear on the label, without abbreviations and enabling its specific
identification.';
(b)
Section 1.2 is replaced by the following:
'1.2. Details of the submitter and contact point
The name, full address, telephone number and email address of the submitter shall be provided and, if
different, the name, full address, telephone number and email address of the point of contact to be used for
obtaining further information relevant for emergency health response purposes';
()
 Section 1.3 is replaced by the following:
‘1.3. Name, telephone number and email address for rapid access to additional product information
In the case of a limited submission as laid down in Section 2.3 of Part A, a name, a telephone number and an
email address shall be provided at which rapid access to detailed additional product information relevant for
emergency health response purposes is available in the language provided in Section 3.3 of Part A. The
telephone number shall be accessible 24 hours per day, 7 days per week:;
(d)
 in Section 2.4, the third indent is replaced by the following:
the pH, if available, of the mixture as supplied, or, where the mixture is a solid, the pH of an aqueous
liquid or solution at a given concentration. The concentration of the test mixture in water shall be
indicated. If the pH is not available, the reasons shall be given;'
(e)
 in Section 3.1, the third and fourth subparagraphs are replaced by the following:
By way of derogation from the second subparagraph, in a group submission, perfume components in mixtures
shall be present in at least one of the mixtures.
For group submissions where the perfumes vary between the mixtures contained in the group, a list shall be
provided of the mixtures and the perfumes they contain, including their classification:;
(f)
Section 3.1.1 is replaced by the following:
“3.1.1. Requirements for mixtures for industrial use
In the case of a limited submission as laid down in Section 2.3 of Part A, the information to be submitted
on the composition of a mixture for industrial use may be limited to the information contained in the
Safety Data Sheet in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006, provided that
additional information on the composition is available on request for rapid access in accordance with
Section 1.3.';
 the heading to Section 3.2 is replaced by the following:
'Identification of mixture components';
(h) in Section 3.2, the following paragraph is inserted before Section 3.2.1:
'A mixture component is either a substance or a mixture in mixture.';

L 6/12
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
10.1.2020
(i)
in Section 3.2.2, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following:
Information on the substances contained in a MIM shall be provided in accordance with the criteria of Section
3.2.1, unless the submitter does not have access to information on the full composition of the MIM. In the latter
case, the MIM shall be identified by means of its product identifier in accordance with Article 18(3)(a), together
with its concentration and UFI, if available and if the appointed body has received the information on the MIM in
a prior submission. In absence of a UFI or if the appointed body has not received the information on the MIM in a
prior submission, the MIM shall be identified by means of its product identifier in accordance with Article 18(3)
(a), together with its concentration and the compositional information contained in the Safety Data Sheet of the
MIM and any other known components, as well as the name, email address and telephone number of the MIM
Supplier:';
(i)
 Section 3.2.3 is replaced by the following:
3.2.3. Generic product identifiers
By way of derogation from Sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.2, the generic product identifiers “perfumes" or
“colouring agents" may be used for mixture components used exclusively to add perfume or colour,
where the following conditions are met:
 the mixture components are not classified for any health hazard,
 the concentration of mixture components identified with a given generic product identifier does not
exceed in total:
(a) 5 % for the sum of perfumes; and
(b) 25 % for the sum of colouring agents.;
(k)  Section 3.3 is replaced by the following:
3.3 Mixture components subject to submission requirements
The following mixture components shall be indicated:
(1) mixture components classified as hazardous on the basis of their health or physical effects which:
- are present in concentrations equal to or greater than O,1 %
: are identified, even if in concentrations lower than O,1 %, unless the submitter can demonstrate that
those components are irrelevant for the purposes of emergency health response and preventative
measures;
(2) mixture components not classified as hazardous on the basis of their health or physical effects which are
identified and present in concentrations equal to or greater than 1 %:;
(1)
 Section 3.4 is replaced by the following:
'3.4. Concentration and concentration ranges of the mixture components
Submitters shall provide the information laid down in Sections 3.4.1 and 3.4.2 with regard to the
concentration of the mixture components, identified in accordance with Section 3.3';
(m) in Section 3.4.1, the title of Table 1 is replaced by the following:
'Concentration ranges applicable to hazardous components of major concern for emergency health
response';

10.1.2020
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
L 6/13
(n) Section 3.4.2 is replaced by the following:
‘3.4.2. Other hazardous components and components not classified as hazardous
The concentration of the hazardous components in a mixture that are not classified for any of the hazard
categories listed in Section 3.4.1 and of the identified components not classified as hazardous shall be
expressed, in accordance with Table 2, as ranges of percentages in descending order by mass or volume.
As an alternative, exact percentages may be provided.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, for perfume components that are not classified or only
classified for skin sensitisation Category 1, 1A or 1B or aspiration toxicity, submitters shall not be required
to provide information on their concentration, provided that their total concentration does not exceed
5%.
Table 2
Concentration ranges applicable to other hazardous components and components not
classified as hazardous
Concentration range of the component contained in the
Maximum width of the concentration range to be used in
mixture (%)
the submission
≥25 -<100
20 % units
≥ 10 -<25
10 % units
≥1-<10
3 % units
>0-<1
1 % units'
(o)  Section 3.5 is replaced by the following:
3.5. Classification of mixture components
The classification of mixture components for health and physical hazards (hazard classes, hazard categories
and hazard statements) shall be provided. This includes the classification for at least all substances referred
Safety Data Sheets. In the case of a MIM identified by means of its product identifier and its UFI in
accordance with Section 3.2.2 of Part B, only the classification for health and physical hazards of the MIM
shall be provided';
in Section 4.1, the title of Table 3 is replaced by the following:
(P)
Variations of the concentration of components requiring a submission update';
(b)
 in Section 4.1, the final subparagraph is replaced by the following:
"When the perfumes in a group submission change, the list of mixtures and the perfumes they contain as required
in Section 3.1 shall be updated.';
(3) Part C is amended as follows:
(a)  Section 1.2 is replaced by the following:
'1.2 Identification of the mixture and of the submitter
Product identifier
- Complete trade name(s) of the product (in case of group submission, all product identifiers shall be listed)
- Other names, synonyms
- Unique Formula Identifier(s) (UFI)
- Other identifiers (authorisation number, company product codes)

L 6/14
EN
Official Journal of the European Union
10.1.2020
Contact details of the submitter and, where applicable, contact point
 Name
 Full address
- Telephone number
 Email address
Contact details for rapid access to additional product information (24 hours/7 days). Only for limited submission.
 Name
 Telephone number (accessible 24 hours per day, 7 days per week)
 Email address';
(b) in Section 1.3, the list of 'Additional information on the mixture' is replaced by the following:
'Additional information on the mixture
- Colour(s)
 The pH, if available, of the mixture as supplied, or, where the mixture is a solid, the pH of an aqueous liquid or
solution at a given concentration. The concentration of the test mixture in water shall be indicated. If the pH is
not available, the reasons shall be given
 Physical state(s)
— Packaging (type(s) and size(s)
 Intended use (product category)
 Uses (consumer, professional, industrial).