COUNCIL REGULATION (EU) 2025/392
of 24 February 2025
amending Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in 
Belarus and the involvement of Belarus in the Russian aggression against Ukraine
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 215 thereof,
Having regard to Council Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 of 24 February 2025 amending Decision 2012/642/CFSP concerning 
restrictive measures in view of the situation in Belarus and the involvement of Belarus in the Russian aggression against 
Ukraine (1),
Having regard to the joint proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and 
the European Commission,
Whereas:
(1)
On 18 May 2006, the Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 (2).
(2)
Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 gives effect to the measures provided for in Council Decision 2012/642/CFSP (3).
(3)
On 24 February 2025, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2025/391.
(4)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 strengthens the prohibition on the export of dual-use goods and technology listed in 
Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council (4), and of goods and 
technology which might contribute to the technological enhancement of Belarus’s defence and security sector, as 
listed in Annex Va to Regulation (EC) No 765/2006, to entities on the list of legal persons, entities or bodies in 
Annex II to Decision 2012/642/CFSP.
(5)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 expands the list of items which might contribute to Belarus’s military and technological 
enhancement or to the development of its defence and security sector by listing items which have been used by 
Russia in its war of aggression against Ukraine and items which contribute to the development or production of 
Belarus’s military systems, including chemical precursors to riot control agents, software related to computer 
numerical control (CNC) machines, chromium ores and compounds and controllers used to guide unmanned aerial 
vehicles (UAVs).
(6)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 imposes further restrictions on exports of goods which could contribute to the 
enhancement of Belarusian industrial capacities, such as chemical elements, pyrotechnic articles and combustible 
materials.
(7)
Furthermore, in order to minimise the risk of circumvention of restrictive measures, Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 
further extends the list of goods and technology subject to the prohibition on transit via the territory of Belarus of 
machinery and of goods which could contribute, in particular, to the enhancement of Belarusian industrial 
capacities.
Official Journal 
of the European Union
EN 
L series
2025/392
24.2.2025
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
1/110
(1)
OJ L, 2025/391, 24.2.2025, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2025/391/oj.
(2)
Council Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 of 18 May 2006 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Belarus and the 
involvement of Belarus in the Russian aggression against Ukraine (OJ L 134, 20.5.2006, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa. 
eu/eli/reg/2006/765/oj).
(3)
Council Decision 2012/642/CFSP of 15 October 2012 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Belarus and the 
involvement of Belarus in the Russian aggression against Ukraine (OJ L 285, 17.10.2012, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa. 
eu/eli/dec/2012/642/oj).
(4)
Regulation (EU) 2021/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2021 setting up a Union regime for the control 
of exports, brokering, technical assistance, transit and transfer of dual-use items (OJ L 206 11.6.2021, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa. 
eu/eli/reg/2021/821/oj).
(8)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 establishes derogations for the provision of certain goods and machinery necessary for 
civilian non-publicly available electronic communications networks.
(9)
Additionally, Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 introduces further restrictions on the import of primary aluminium, which 
allows Belarus to diversify its sources of revenue, thereby enabling its involvement in the Russian aggression against 
Ukraine.
(10)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 imposes a restriction on the sale, supply, transfer, export or provision of software related 
to oil and gas exploration in order to further restrict the oil and gas exploration and production capacities of Belarus 
and minimise the risk of circumvention of restrictive measures via the territory of Belarus.
(11)
In order to prevent Union operators from contributing to the development of Belarus’s infrastructure, Decision 
(CFSP) 2025/391 introduces a prohibition on the provision of construction services, including civil engineering 
works.
(12)
It is prohibited to sell, supply, transfer, export, or provide, directly or indirectly, software for the management of 
enterprises and software for industrial design and manufacture to the Republic of Belarus, its Government, its public 
bodies, corporations or agencies or to any natural or legal person, entity or body acting on their behalf or at their 
direction. Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 clarifies that the sale, license or transfer in any other way of intellectual 
property rights or trade secrets related to that software is prohibited.
(13)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 introduces a derogation from the prohibition on the provision of construction, 
architectural and engineering services, legal advisory services and IT consultancy services where those services are 
strictly necessary for the functioning of a consular or diplomatic representation of Belarus located in a Member State.
(14)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 expands the scope of the prohibition on accepting deposits to include those from legal 
persons, entities or bodies established in third countries and majority-owned by Belarusian nationals or natural 
persons residing in Belarus. Additionally, it subjects the acceptance of deposits for non-prohibited cross-border trade 
to a prior authorisation by the national competent authorities.
(15)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 prohibits the provision of crypto-asset wallet, account or custody services to Belarusian 
persons and residents and, in order to limit circumvention of this prohibition, it includes a prohibition on Belarusian 
nationals or natural persons residing in Belarus owning or controlling, or holding any posts on the governing bodies 
of, the legal persons, entities or bodies providing such services.
(16)
In order to facilitate the work of civil society and media, Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 also introduces an exemption 
from the prohibition on the sale, supply, transfer or export of banknotes denominated in any official currency of 
a Member State to or for use in Belarus, where it is necessary for use in civil society and media activities that directly 
promote democracy, human rights or the rule of law in Belarus, under certain conditions.
(17)
In order to minimise the risk of circumvention of restrictive measures, Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 amends the 
prohibition on the transport of goods by road within the territory of the Union, including in transit, by operators 
that are owned for 25 % or more by a Belarusian natural or legal person. Entities established in the Union 
before 8 April 2022 and already operating as road transport undertakings should be prohibited from making any 
changes to their capital structure that would increase the percentage share owned by a Belarusian natural or legal 
person, entity or body, unless that percentage share remains below 25 % following such a change.
(18)
Decision 2012/642/CFSP provides for the freezing of funds and economic resources of, and prohibits making funds 
or economic resources available to, designated persons, entities and bodies. Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 introduces an 
additional designation criterion which applies to those forming part of, supporting, materially or financially, or 
benefiting from the military and industrial complex of Belarus.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
2/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(19)
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 introduces a derogation allowing the release of funds that were frozen due to the 
involvement of a listed intermediary bank in their transfer, under the conditions that the transfer is between two 
non-listed natural or legal persons, entities or bodies and is carried out using accounts at non-listed credit 
institutions. Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 also introduces a derogation allowing the release of funds that were frozen 
due to the involvement of a listed issuing bank in their transfer under the condition that the transfer is between two 
non-listed natural or legal persons, entities or bodies.
(20)
Where necessary to combat the circumvention of the prohibitions set out in Regulation (EC) No 765/2006, the 
Commission should be able to exchange information concerning third-country trade, transactions and operators 
with the competent authorities of countries that apply similar restrictive measures.
(21)
Pursuant to Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council (5), certain types of entities, 
namely obliged entities as set out in Article 2(1) thereof, are required to report suspicious transactions to Member 
States’ Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs). Pursuant to Directive (EU) 2024/1226 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council (6), the violation of Union restrictive measures was added to the list of predicate offences set out in 
Article 2, point (1), of Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council (7). As a result of 
that addition, and pursuant to Article 33 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 as of May 2025, obliged entities will be 
required to report to FIUs all suspicious transactions related to suspected criminal activity linked to the violation of 
Union restrictive measures. Furthermore, Article 8j of Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 requires natural and legal 
persons, entities and bodies to supply any information which would facilitate the implementation of that Regulation 
to the competent authority of the Member State in which they are resident or located within 2 weeks of acquiring 
that information and to cooperate with that competent authority in any verification of such information. To avoid 
double reporting, Member States can decide that those persons, entities and bodies are not required to report the 
same information to competent authorities other than FIUs.
(22)
In order to ensure the correct implementation of restrictive measures and the adequate protection of Union 
operators, it is appropriate that, pursuant to Article 8h of Regulation (EC) No 765/2006, Union operators be entitled 
to seek, in judicial proceedings before the competent courts of a Member State, compensation in respect of certain 
direct or indirect damages incurred as result of claims lodged by the entities or persons referred to in Article 8d(1) of 
that Regulation, including damages incurred by legal persons, entities or bodies that those Union operators own or 
control, subject to national rules on the prohibition of double recovery. In addition, Union operators should be able 
to seek damages from persons, entities or bodies that own or control the entities or bodies referred to in 
Article 8d(1) of Regulation (EC) No 765/2006. In situations where Belarus or another third country takes measures 
to frustrate compliance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2006, Union operators can be regarded as being de facto 
deprived of having effective access to the remedies under those domestic jurisdictions.
(23)
In order to ensure the effective implementation of restrictive measures and to remedy possible situations of denial of 
justice, it is appropriate to provide for a forum necessitatis to allow a court of a Member State, on an exceptional basis, 
to rule on a claim for damages brought pursuant to Article 8h of Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 where Union law or 
the law of a Member State does not establish the jurisdiction of a court of any Member State in particular. 
Jurisdiction based on forum necessitatis should, however, only be exercised where a case has a sufficient connection 
with the Member State of the court seised, for example where the claimant is domiciled in, or incorporated under, 
the law of that Member State.
(24)
It is appropriate to increase cooperation between national competent authorities, including by reinforcing the role of 
FIUs in the exchange of information that is relevant for the purposes of the implementation and enforcement of the 
restrictive measures set out in Regulation (EC) No 765/2006.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
3/110
(5)
Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the 
financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and 
Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (OJ L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 73, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2015/849/oj).
(6)
Directive (EU) 2024/1226 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 April 2024 on the definition of criminal offences 
and penalties for the violation of Union restrictive measures and amending Directive (EU) 2018/1673 (OJ L, 2024/1226, 29.4.2024, 
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2024/1226/oj).
(7)
Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on combating money laundering by 
criminal law (OJ L 284, 12.11.2018, p. 22, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2018/1673/oj).
(25)
Given that the compliance of Union operators is essential for the effectiveness of restrictive measures, the 
Commission should provide them with assistance to facilitate their compliance, especially where such compliance 
would require significant resources and where centralised support could improve efficiency. That is particularly so in 
relation to the due diligence required from Union operators in respect of potential business partners. The 
Commission should be able to process personal data necessary for that purpose.
(26)
To help combat the re-exportation of certain goods, pursuant to Decision (CFSP) 2025/391, Union operators that 
are selling, supplying, transferring or exporting such goods to third countries, other than countries listed in 
Annex Vba to Regulation (EC) No 765/2006, are required to implement due diligence mechanisms capable of 
identifying and assessing the risks of such re-exportation to Belarus and mitigating such risks. Moreover, pursuant to 
Decision (CFSP) 2025/391, Union operators are required to ensure that legal persons, entities and bodies established 
outside the Union that they own or control also implement those requirements.
(27)
Finally, Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 makes certain amendments to the exemptions and derogations from the 
prohibition on the export of dual-use goods and advanced technologies. In addition, in Decision (CFSP) 2025/391 
references to transition periods which have expired and other references that are not necessary for compliance with 
certain provisions of Decision 2012/642/CFSP are deleted. The deletion of references to transition periods which 
have already expired is not intended to have any legal effect on past or ongoing contracts or on the applicability of 
those transition periods. It is also appropriate to include in this Regulation certain technical amendments to improve 
the accuracy and linguistic clarity of certain provisions of Regulation (EC) No 765/2006, including those concerning 
personal data and documents held by the institutions of the Union.
(28)
These measures fall within the scope of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and therefore, in 
particular with a view to ensuring their uniform application in all Member States, regulatory action at the level of the 
Union is necessary.
(29)
Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 should therefore be amended accordingly,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Regulation (EC) No 765/2006 is amended as follows:
(1)
Article 1bb, is amended as follows:
(a) paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 are deleted;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘14a.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 3, the competent authorities may authorise the sale, supply, 
transfer or export of goods falling under CN codes 8517 62 and 8523 52, or the provision of related technical or 
financial assistance, for non-military-use and for a non-military end-user, after having determined that such goods 
or related technical or financial assistance are intended for civilian non-publicly available electronic 
communications networks.’;
(c) paragraph 15 is replaced by the following:
‘15.
When deciding on requests for authorisations for the purposes included in paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14 
and 14a, the competent authorities shall not grant an authorisation for exports to any natural or legal person, 
entity or body in Belarus or for use in Belarus, if they have reasonable grounds to believe that the goods might 
have a military end use.’;
(d) paragraph 16 is replaced by the following:
‘16.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any 
authorisation granted under paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14 and 14a within 2 weeks of the authorisation.’;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
4/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(2)
Article 1e is amended as follows:
(a) paragraphs 3 and 3a are replaced by the following:
‘3.
Without prejudice to the authorisation requirements pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/821, the 
prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply to the sale, supply, transfer or export of 
dual-use goods and technology or to the related provision of technical and financial assistance, for non-military 
use and for a non-military end-user, that is intended for:
(a) humanitarian purposes, health emergencies, the urgent prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have 
a serious and significant impact on human health and safety or the environment or as a response to natural 
disasters; or
(b) medical or pharmaceutical purposes provided that they are not listed in Annex XXX to this Regulation.
The exporter shall declare in the customs declaration that the items are being exported under the relevant 
exemption set out in this paragraph and shall notify the competent authority of the Member State where the 
exporter is resident or established of the first use per recipient in Belarus of the relevant exemption.
3a.
Without prejudice to the authorisation requirements pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/821, the 
prohibition in paragraph 1a of this Article shall not apply to the transit via the territory of Belarus of dual-use 
goods and technology intended for the purposes set out in paragraph 3 of this Article.’;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘3b.
Member States shall provide for reporting requirements attached to the use of exemptions under 
paragraph 3 and any additional information on items exported under those exemptions that the Member State 
where the exporter is resident or established requires.’;
(c) paragraphs 4 and 4a are replaced by the following:
‘4.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, and without prejudice to the authorisation 
requirements pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/821, the competent authorities may authorise the sale, supply, 
transfer or export of dual-use goods and technology or the provision of related technical or financial assistance, for 
non-military use and for a non-military end user, after having determined that such goods or technology or the 
related technical or financial assistance are intended for:
(b) intergovernmental cooperation in space programmes;
(c) the operation, maintenance, fuel reprocessing and safety of civil nuclear capabilities, as well as civil nuclear 
cooperation, in particular in the field of research and development;
(d) maritime safety;
(e) civilian non-publicly available electronic communications networks which are not the property of an entity 
that is publicly controlled or with over 50 % public ownership;
(f) the exclusive use of entities owned, or solely or jointly controlled by a legal person, entity or body which is 
incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State or of a partner country;
(g) the diplomatic representations of the Union, Member States and partner countries, including delegations, 
embassies and missions;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
5/110
(h) ensuring cyber-security and information security for natural and legal persons, entities and bodies in Belarus 
except for its Government and undertakings directly or indirectly controlled by that Government;
(i) software updates;
(j) use as consumer communication devices; or
(k) medical or pharmaceutical purposes, provided that they are listed in Annex XXX to this Regulation.
4a.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1a, and without prejudice to the authorisation requirements pursuant 
to Regulation (EU) 2021/821, the competent authorities may authorise the transit via the territory of Belarus of 
dual-use goods and technology after having determined that such goods or technology are intended for the 
purposes set out in points (b), (c), (d), (h) and (k) of paragraph 4 of this Article.’;
(d) paragraph 7 is replaced by the following:
‘7.
When deciding on requests for authorisations referred to in paragraph 4 and 5, the competent authorities 
shall not grant an authorisation if they have reasonable grounds to believe that:
(i) the end-user might be a military end-user, a natural or legal person, entity or body in Annex V, or that the 
goods might have a military end-use, unless the sale, supply, transfer or export of goods and technology 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the provision of related technical or financial assistance is allowed 
under Article 1fa(1b), point (a); or
(ii) the sale, supply, transfer or export of goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the 
provision of related technical or financial assistance is intended for aviation or the space industry.’;
(3)
Article 1f is amended as follows:
(a) paragraphs 3 and 3a are replaced by the following:
‘3.
The prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the sale, supply, transfer or export of the goods 
and technology referred to in paragraph 1 or to the related provision of technical and financial assistance, for 
non-military use and for a non-military end-user, that is intended for:
(a) humanitarian purposes, health emergencies, the urgent prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have 
a serious and significant impact on human health and safety or the environment or as a response to natural 
disasters; or
(b) medical or pharmaceutical purposes provided that they are not listed in Annex XXX to this Regulation.
The exporter shall declare in the customs declaration that the items are being exported under the relevant 
exemption set out in this paragraph and shall notify the competent authority of the Member State where the 
exporter is resident or established of the first use per recipient in Belarus of the relevant exemption
3a.
The prohibition in paragraph 1a shall not apply to the transit via the territory of Belarus of goods and 
technology which might contribute to Belarus’s military and technological enhancement or to the development of 
its defence and security sector, as listed in Annex Va, intended for the purposes set out in paragraph 3.’;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘3b.
Member States shall provide for reporting requirements attached to the use of exemptions under 
paragraph 3 and any additional information on items exported under those exemptions that the Member State 
where the exporter is resident or established requires.’;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
6/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(c) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following:
‘4.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, the competent authorities may authorise the sale, supply, 
transfer or export of the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 or the provision of related technical or 
financial assistance, for non-military use and for a non-military end user, after having determined that such goods 
or technology or the related technical or financial assistance are intended for:
(b) intergovernmental cooperation in space programmes;
(c) the operation, maintenance, fuel reprocessing and safety of civil nuclear capabilities, as well as civil nuclear 
cooperation, in particular in the field of research and development;
(d) maritime safety;
(e) civilian non-publicly available electronic communications networks which are not the property of an entity 
that is publicly controlled or with over 50 % public ownership;
(f) the exclusive use of entities owned, or solely or jointly controlled by a legal person, entity or body which is 
incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State or of a partner country;
(g) the diplomatic representations of the Union, Member States and partner countries, including delegations, 
embassies and missions;
(h) ensuring cyber-security and information security for natural and legal persons, entities and bodies in Belarus 
except for its Government and undertakings directly or indirectly controlled by that Government;
(j) software updates;
(k) use as consumer communication devices; or
(l) medical or pharmaceutical purposes, provided that they are listed in Annex XXX to this Regulation.’;
(d) paragraph 4a is deleted;
(e) paragraph 4b is replaced by the following;
‘4b.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1a, the competent authorities may authorise the transit via the 
territory of Belarus of goods and technology which might contribute to Belarus’s military and technological 
enhancement or to the development of its defence and security sector, as listed in Annex Va, after having 
determined that such goods or technology are intended for the purposes set out in points (b), (c), (d), (h) and (l) of 
paragraph 4.’;
(f) paragraph 5a is deleted;
(g) paragraph 7 is replaced by the following:
‘7.
When deciding on requests for authorisations referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5, the competent authorities 
shall not grant an authorisation if they have reasonable grounds to believe that:
(i) the end-user might be a military end-user, a natural or legal person, entity or body in Annex V, or that the 
goods might have a military end-use, unless the sale, supply, transfer or export of goods and technology 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the provision of related technical or financial assistance is allowed 
under Article 1fa(1b), point (a); or
(ii) the sale, supply, transfer or export of goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the 
provision of related technical or financial assistance is intended for aviation or the space industry.’;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
7/110
(4)
Article 1fa is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
It shall be prohibited to sell, supply, transfer or export, directly or indirectly, dual-use goods and technology, 
as well as goods and technology listed in Annex Va, whether or not originating in the Union, to any natural or 
legal person, entity or body listed in Annex V.’;
(b) the following paragraphs are inserted:
‘1a.
It shall be prohibited to:
(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the goods and technology referred 
to in paragraph 1 and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and technology, 
directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body listed in Annex V;
(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 for any 
sale, supply, transfer or export of those goods and technology, or for the provision of related technical 
assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or 
body listed in Annex V; or
(c) sell, license or transfer in any other way intellectual property rights or trade secrets as well as grant rights to 
access or re-use any material or information protected by means of intellectual property rights or constituting 
trade secrets related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 and to the provision, manufacture, 
maintenance and use of those goods and technology, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity 
or body listed in Annex V.
1b.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 1a, and without prejudice to the authorisation requirements 
pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/821, the competent authorities may allow the sale, supply, transfer or export of 
dual-use goods and technology, as well as goods and technology as listed in Annex Va, or the provision of related 
technical or financial assistance only after having determined that:
(a) such goods or technology or the related technical or financial assistance are necessary for the urgent 
prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have a serious and significant impact on human health and safety 
or the environment; or
(b) such goods or technology or the related technical or financial assistance are due under contracts concluded 
before 26 February 2022, or ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such a contract, provided that 
the authorisation is requested before 1 May 2022.’;
(5)
in Article 1fc, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
The competent authorities shall, without delay, exchange information on the application of Articles 1e, 1f and 
1fa with the other Member States and the Commission, including on any authorisation granted or denied and, in the 
event of suspected forum shopping or other cases as appropriate, on requests for authorisation received.
The competent authorities shall exchange information on the enforcement of Articles 1e, 1f and 1fa with the other 
Member States and the Commission, including on related infringements and penalties, as well as best practices of 
national enforcement authorities and the detection and prosecution of unauthorised exports. The exchange of 
information shall be carried out using the electronic system provided for in Article 23(6) of Regulation 
(EU) 2021/821.’;
(6)
in Article 1gc, paragraph 3 is deleted;
(7)
the following article is inserted:
‘Article 1gd
1.
It shall be prohibited to sell, supply, transfer, export or provide, directly or indirectly, software as listed in 
Annex XXXII, to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Belarus or for use in Belarus.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
8/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
2.
It shall be prohibited to:
(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the sale, supply, transfer, export or 
provision of software referred to in paragraph 1, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body 
in Belarus, or for use in Belarus;
(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the sale, supply, transfer, export or provision of software 
referred to in paragraph 1, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, 
directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Belarus, or for use in Belarus; or
(c) sell, license or transfer in any other way intellectual property rights or trade secrets as well as grant rights to access 
or re-use any material or information protected by means of intellectual property rights or constituting trade 
secrets related to the sale, supply, transfer, export or provision of software referred to in paragraph 1, directly or 
indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Belarus or for use in Belarus.
3.
The prohibitions in paragraph 1 shall not apply to the sale, supply, transfer, export or provision of software that 
is necessary for the execution until 26 May 2025 of contracts concluded before 25 February 2025, or of ancillary 
contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts.
4.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions 
as they deem appropriate, the sale, supply, transfer or export and the provision of technical or financial assistance, 
after having determined that it is necessary for ensuring critical energy supply within the Union.
5.
The Member State or Member States concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of 
any authorisation granted under paragraph 4 within 2 weeks of the authorisation.’;
(8)
in Article 1h, paragraph 4 is deleted;
(9)
Article 1jc is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 2, the introductory wording is replaced by the following:
‘2.
It shall be prohibited to provide, directly or indirectly, construction, architectural and engineering services, 
legal advisory services and IT consultancy services to:’;
(b) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following:
‘5.
It shall be prohibited to:
(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the goods and services referred to in 
paragraphs 1 to 4 for their provision, directly or indirectly, to the Republic of Belarus, its Government, its 
public bodies, corporations or agencies or to any natural or legal person, entity or body acting on behalf or at 
the direction of such a legal person, entity or body;
(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and services referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 for 
their provision, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly 
or indirectly, to the Republic of Belarus, its Government, its public bodies, corporations or agencies or to any 
natural or legal person, entity or body acting on behalf or at the direction of such a legal person, entity or body; 
or
(c) sell, license or transfer in any other way intellectual property rights or trade secrets as well as grant rights to 
access or re-use any material or information protected by means of intellectual property rights or constituting 
trade secrets related to the software referred to in paragraph 4 and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance 
and use of that software, directly or indirectly to the Republic of Belarus, its Government, its public bodies, 
corporations or agencies or to any natural or legal person, entity or body acting on behalf or at the direction of 
such a legal person, entity or body.’;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
9/110
(c) paragraph 6 is deleted;
(d) paragraph 9 is deleted;
(e) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘12a.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2, the competent authorities may authorise the provision of 
services referred to therein, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, after having determined that those 
services are strictly necessary for the functioning of a consular or diplomatic representation of Belarus located in 
a Member State.’;
(f) paragraph 13 is amended as follows:
(i) points (g) and (h) are replaced by the following:
‘(g) the provision of electronic communication services by Union telecommunication operators necessary for 
the operation, maintenance and security, including cybersecurity, of electronic communication services, in 
Belarus, in Ukraine, in the Union, between Belarus and the Union, and between Ukraine and the Union, 
and for data centre services in the Union;
(h) the exclusive use of legal persons, entities or bodies established in Belarus that are owned by, or solely or 
jointly controlled by, a legal person, entity or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of 
a Member State, a country member of the European Economic Area, Switzerland or a partner country, as 
listed in Annex Vb; or’;
(ii) the following point is added:
‘(i) the ongoing construction of infrastructures up to 25 m in height necessary for civil energy supply and 
distribution to educational and healthcare facilities.’;
(10) in Article 1o, paragraph 2 is deleted;
(11) in Article 1p, paragraph 2 is deleted;
(12) in Article 1q, paragraph 2 is deleted;
(13) in Article 1r, paragraph 2 is deleted;
(14) Article 1ra is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 9 is deleted;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘9a.
With regard to the goods falling under the CN code 7601, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not 
apply to the execution until 26 May 2025 of contracts concluded before 25 February 2025, or of ancillary 
contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts.’;
(15) Article 1s is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 3 is deleted;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘4a.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, and without prejudice to the authorisation requirements pursuant 
to Regulation (EU) 2021/821, the competent authorities may authorise the sale, supply, transfer or export of 
machinery falling under CN code 8471 80 or the provision of related technical or financial assistance, for 
non-military use and for a non-military end-user, after having determined that such machinery or the related 
technical or financial assistance are intended for civilian non-publicly available electronic communications 
networks.’;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
10/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(c) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following:
‘5.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any 
authorisation granted under paragraphs 4 and 4a within 2 weeks of the authorisation.’;
(16) in Article 1sa, paragraph 5 is deleted;
(17) Article 1t is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 2, point (b) is deleted;
(b) the following paragraphs are added:
‘3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as 
they deem appropriate, the provision of public financing or financial assistance up to the total value of 
EUR 10 000 000 per project benefiting small and medium-sized enterprises established in the Union.
4.
The Member State or Member States concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission 
of any authorisation granted under paragraph 3 within 2 weeks of the authorisation.’;
(18) Article 1u is replaced by the following:
‘Article 1u
1.
It shall be prohibited to accept any deposits from Belarusian nationals or natural persons residing in Belarus, or 
legal persons, entities or bodies established in Belarus or a legal person, entity or body established outside the Union 
and whose proprietary rights are directly or indirectly owned for more than 50 % by Belarusian nationals or natural 
persons residing in Belarus, if the total value of deposits of the natural or legal person, entity or body per credit 
institution exceeds EUR 100 000.
2.
It shall be prohibited to provide crypto-asset wallet, account or custody services to Belarusian nationals or 
natural persons residing in Belarus, or legal persons, entities or bodies established in Belarus.
3.
It shall be prohibited as from 26 March 2025 to allow Belarusian nationals or natural persons residing in Belarus 
to directly or indirectly own or control, or to hold any posts in the governing bodies of, a legal person, entity or body 
which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State and is providing the services referred to in 
paragraph 2.
4.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply to nationals of a Member State, of a country member of the European 
Economic Area or of Switzerland, or to natural persons having a temporary or permanent residence permit in 
a Member State, in a country member of the European Economic Area or in Switzerland.’;
(19) Article 1v is replaced by the following:
‘Article 1v
1.
By way of derogation from Article 1u(1) and (2), the competent authorities may authorise the acceptance of such 
a deposit or the provision of wallet, account or custody service, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, after 
having determined that the acceptance of such a deposit or the provision of wallet, account or custody service is:
(a) necessary to satisfy the basic needs of natural or legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in Article 1u(1) and 
their dependent family members, including payments for food, rent or mortgage, medicines and medical 
treatment, taxes, insurance premiums, and public utility charges;
(b) intended exclusively for the payment of reasonable professional fees or the reimbursement of incurred expenses 
associated with the provision of legal services;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
11/110
(c) necessary for extraordinary expenses, provided that the relevant competent authority has notified the competent 
authorities of the other Member States and the Commission of the grounds on which it considers that a specific 
authorisation should be granted, at least 2 weeks prior to the authorisation;
(d) necessary for official purposes of a diplomatic mission or consular post or international organisation;
(e) intended exclusively for the payment of fees or service charges for the routine holding or maintenance of frozen 
funds or economic resources; or
(f) necessary for non-prohibited cross-border trade in goods and services between the Union and Belarus.
2.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation 
granted under paragraph 1, point (a), (b), (d) or (e), within 2 weeks of the authorisation.’;
(20) in Article 1w, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
By way of derogation from Article 1u(1) and (2), the competent authorities may authorise the acceptance of 
such a deposit or provision of wallet, account or custody service, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, 
after having determined that the acceptance of such a deposit or provision of wallet, account or custody service is 
necessary for:
(a) humanitarian purposes, such as delivering or facilitating the delivery of assistance, including medical supplies, 
food, or the transfer of humanitarian workers and related assistance or for evacuations; or
(b) civil society activities that directly promote democracy, human rights or the rule of law in Belarus.’;
(21) in Article 1za, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
‘2.
The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall not apply to the sale, supply, transfer or export of banknotes denominated 
in any official currency of a Member State provided that such sale, supply, transfer or export is necessary for:
(a) the personal use of natural persons travelling to Belarus or members of their immediate families travelling with 
them;
(b) the official purposes of diplomatic missions, consular posts or international organisations in Belarus enjoying 
immunities in accordance with international law; or
(c) civil society and media activities that directly promote democracy, human rights or the rule of law in Belarus 
which receive public funding from the Union, Member States or countries listed in Annex Vba.’;
(22) Article 1zc is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 1b is replaced by the following:
‘1b.
It shall be prohibited for any legal person, entity or body established in the Union which is owned for 25 % 
or more by a Belarusian natural or legal person, entity or body to be admitted to become a road transport 
undertaking which transports goods by road within the territory of the Union, including in transit.
It shall be prohibited for any legal person, entity or body established in the Union before 8 April 2022 and that is 
already a road transport undertaking which transports goods by road within the territory of the Union, including 
in transit, to make any changes to its capital structure that would increase the percentage share owned by 
a Belarusian natural or legal person, entity or body, unless that percentage remains below 25 % following such 
a change.’;
(b) paragraph 3 is deleted;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
12/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(23) Article 2 is amended as follows:
(a) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘7a.
Annex I shall also consist of a list of the natural or legal persons, entities or bodies who, in accordance with 
Article 4(1), point (da), of Decision 2012/642/CFSP, have been identified by the Council as forming part of, 
supporting, materially or financially, or benefiting from the military and industrial complex of Belarus, including 
by being involved in the development, production or supply of military technology and equipment.’;
(b) paragraph 8 is replaced by the following:
‘8.
Annex I shall also include natural or legal persons, entities or bodies associated with the persons, entities or 
bodies referred to in paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 7a.’;
(24) the following article is inserted:
‘Article 4d
1.
By way of derogation from Article 2 of this Regulation, and provided that the funds concerned were frozen as 
a result of the involvement of a legal person, entity or body listed in Annex I to this Regulation, or of a legal person 
owned or controlled by a legal person, entity or body listed in that Annex, acting as intermediary bank during 
a transfer of those funds to the Union from the Republic of Belarus, from a third country or from the Union, the 
competent authorities of a Member State may, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, authorise the release 
of certain frozen funds, after having determined that the transfer of such funds is:
(a) between two natural or legal persons, entities or bodies that are not listed in Annex I to this Regulation;
(b) carried out using accounts at credit institutions that are not listed in Annex I to this Regulation; and
(c) not in breach of Article 2(2) or Article 1m of this Regulation.
This paragraph shall not apply in relation to frozen funds or economic resources held by Central securities 
depositories within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014.
2.
By way of derogation from Article 2 of this Regulation, and provided that the payment concerned was frozen as 
a result of a transfer to the Union from the Republic of Belarus, from a third country or from the Union, initiated 
through or from a legal person, entity or body listed in Annex I to this Regulation, or through or from a legal person 
owned or controlled by a legal person, entity or body listed in that Annex, the competent authorities of a Member 
State may, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, authorise the release of that frozen payment, after having 
determined that the transfer of that payment is:
(a) between two natural or legal persons, entities or bodies that are not listed in Annex I to this Regulation; and
(b) not in breach of Article 2(2) or Article 1m of this Regulation.
This paragraph shall not apply in relation to frozen funds or economic resources held by Central securities 
depositories within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014.
The beneficiaries of a transfer as referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph shall only be nationals of 
a Member State, of a country member of the European Economic Area or of Switzerland, or natural persons having 
a temporary or permanent residence permit in a Member State, in a country member of the European Economic Area 
or in Switzerland.
One authorisation per applicant may be granted under this paragraph.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted 
under this paragraph within one week of the authorisation.’;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
13/110
(25) Article 7 is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 1, the following point is added:
‘(d) detected instances of breach, circumvention and attempts at breach or circumvention of the prohibitions set 
out in this Regulation including through the use of crypto-assets.’;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘2a.
The Commission may, in consultation with the Member States and on the basis of reciprocity, exchange 
with the competent authorities of a country, as listed in Annex Vba, information concerning third-country trade, 
transactions and operators for the purpose of preventing circumvention of the prohibitions set out in this 
Regulation, to the extent that it is relevant and necessary for the effective implementation of this Regulation. 
Where that information contains personal data, the exchange shall be done under the conditions set out 
in Chapter V of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725.
If, on an exceptional basis, the information referred to in the first subparagraph relates to an operator established 
in a Member State, the Commission shall obtain the agreement of the competent authorities of the Member States 
concerned before any exchange of that information.’;
(c) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following:
‘4.
Any document held by the Council, the Commission or the High Representative of the Union for Foreign 
Affairs and Security Policy (the “High Representative”) for the purpose of ensuring the enforcement of the 
measures set out in this Regulation, or of preventing the violation or circumvention thereof, shall be subject to 
professional secrecy and shall enjoy the protection afforded by the rules applicable to the Union institutions. That 
protection shall also apply to the joint proposals from the High Representative and the Commission for the 
amendment of this Regulation and to any preparatory documents related to them.
It shall be presumed that the disclosure of any documents or proposals referred to in the first subparagraph would 
harm the security of the Union or that of one or more of its Member States or the conduct of their international 
relations.’;
(26) Article 8e is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 1, point (c)(ii) is replaced by the following:
‘(ii) processing information related to its contribution to the correct implementation, enforcement and prevention 
of the circumvention of the measures imposed under this Regulation.’;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘1a.
The Commission shall process personal data, including special categories of personal data and personal 
data relating to criminal convictions and offences as defined in Article 10(2) and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) 
2018/1725, for the purposes of the identification of the natural or legal persons, entities or bodies that are subject 
to the restrictive measures provided for in this Regulation, in order to assist the persons referred to in Article 10 of 
this Regulation in their compliance with this Regulation.’;
(c) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following:
‘4.
The competent authorities of the Member States, including enforcement authorities, customs authorities 
within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*), 
competent authorities within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (**), Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council (***), and Directive 
2014/65/EU, as well as Financial Intelligence Units as referred to in Directive (EU) 2015/849, and administrators 
of official registers wherein natural persons, legal persons, entities and bodies, as well as immovable or movable 
property, are registered, shall process and exchange without delay information, including personal data and, if 
necessary, the information referred to in Article 8j, with other competent authorities of their Member State, with 
competent authorities of other Member States and with the Commission, if such processing and exchange is 
necessary to carry out the tasks of the processing authority or the receiving authority under this Regulation, in 
particular when they detect instances of breach, circumvention or attempts at breach or circumvention of the 
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
14/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
prohibitions set out in this Regulation. This provision is without prejudice to rules regarding the confidentiality of 
information held by judicial authorities. 
(*)
Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 laying 
down the Union Customs Code (OJ L 269, 10.10.2013, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2013/952/oj).
(**)
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential 
requirements for credit institutions and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1, 
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2013/575/oj).
(***) Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention 
of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending 
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 
2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (OJ 
L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 73, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2015/849/oj).’;
(27) Article 8ga is replaced by the following:
‘Article 8ga
1.
Natural and legal persons, entities and bodies that sell, supply, transfer or export common high priority items as 
listed in Annex XXX or goods as listed in Annex XXXI shall:
(a) take appropriate steps, proportionately to their nature and size, to identify and assess the risks of exportation to 
Belarus and exportation for use in Belarus for such goods or technology, and ensure that those risk assessments are 
documented and kept up-to-date;
(b) implement appropriate policies, controls and procedures, proportionately to their nature and size, to mitigate and 
manage effectively the risks of exportation to Belarus and exportation for use in Belarus for such goods or 
technology, whether those risks were identified at their level or at the level of the Member State or of the Union.
1a.
Paragraph 1 shall apply as of 2 January 2025 with regard to Annex XXX and as of 26 May 2025 with regard 
to Annex XXXI.
2.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to natural and legal persons, entities and bodies that sell, supply or transfer common 
high priority items as listed in Annex XXX or goods as listed in Annex XXXI only within the Union or to countries 
listed in Annex Vba.
3.
Natural and legal persons, entities and bodies shall ensure that any legal person, entity or body established 
outside the Union that they own or control and that sells, supplies, transfers or exports common high priority items as 
listed in Annex XXX or goods as listed in Annex XXXI implements the requirements in points (a) and (b) of 
paragraph 1.
3a.
Paragraph 3 shall apply as of 2 January 2025 with regard to Annex XXX and as of 26 May 2025 with regard 
to Annex XXXI.
4.
Paragraph 3 shall not apply where, due to reasons that it did not cause itself, a natural or legal person, entity or 
body is not able to exercise control over the legal person, entity or body that it owns.’;
(28) Article 8h is relaced by the following:
‘Article 8h
Any person referred to in the third or fourth indent of Article 10 shall be entitled to recover, in judicial proceedings 
before the competent courts of a Member State, any direct or indirect damages, including legal costs, incurred by that 
person, or by a legal person, entity or body that the person referred to in the fourth indent of Article 10 owns or 
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
15/110
controls, as a consequence of claims lodged with courts in third countries by persons, entities and bodies referred to in 
Article 8d(1), point (a), (b), (c) or (d), in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has 
been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under this Regulation, provided that 
the person concerned does not have effective access to the remedies under the relevant jurisdiction. Such damages may 
be recovered from the persons, entities or bodies referred to in Article 8d(1), point (a), (b),(c) or (d) that lodged the 
claims with the courts in the third country, or from persons, entities or bodies that own or control those entities or 
bodies.’;
(29) the following article is inserted:
‘Article 8k
Where no court of a Member State has jurisdiction pursuant to other provisions of Union or Member State law, 
a court of a Member State may, on an exceptional basis, hear a claim for damages brought pursuant to Article 8h, 
provided that the case has a sufficient connection with the Member State of the court seised.’;
(30) the Annexes are amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation.
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 24 February 2025.
For the Council
The President
K. KALLAS 
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
16/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
ANNEX
The Annexes to Regulation (EU) No 765/2006 are amended as follows:
(1) Annex Va is replaced by the following:
‘ANNEX Va
List of goods and technology referred to in Articles 1f(1) and 1fa(1)
Part A
General Notes, Acronyms and Abbreviations, and Definitions in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821 apply to this Annex, 
with the exception of “Part I – General Notes, Acronyms and Abbreviations, and Definitions, General Notes to Annex I, 
point 2”.
Definitions of Terms used in the Common Military List (CML) of the European Union (C/2024/1945) apply to this Annex.
Without prejudice to Article 1m of this Regulation, non-controlled items containing one or more components listed in this 
Annex are not subject to the controls under Articles 1f(1) and 1fa(1) of this Regulation.
Category I – Electronics
X.A.I.001 Electronic devices and components.
a.
“Microprocessor microcircuits”, “microcomputer microcircuits”, and microcontroller microcircuits having 
any of the following:
1. A performance speed of 5 GigaFLOPS or more and an arithmetic logic unit with an access width of 32 bit 
or more;
2. A clock frequency rate exceeding 25 MHz; or
3. More than one data or instruction bus or serial communication port that provides a direct external 
interconnection between parallel “microprocessor microcircuits” with a transfer rate of 2,5 Mbyte/s;
b. Storage integrated circuits, as follows:
1. Electrically erasable programmable read-only memories (EEPROMs) with a storage capacity;
a. Exceeding 16 Mbits per package for flash memory types; or
b. Exceeding either of the following limits for all other EEPROM types:
1. Exceeding 1 Mbit per package; or
2. Exceeding 256 kbit per package and a maximum access time of less than 80 ns;
2. Static random access memories (SRAMs) with a storage capacity:
a. Exceeding 1 Mbit per package; or
b. Exceeding 256 kbit per package and a maximum access time of less than 25 ns;
c.
Analogue-to-digital converters having any of the following:
1. A resolution of 8 bit or more, but less than 12 bit, with an output rate greater than 200 Mega Samples Per 
Second (MSPS);
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
17/110
2. A resolution of 12 bit with an output rate greater than 105 Mega Samples per Second (MSPS);
3. A resolution of more than 12 bit but equal to or less than 14 bit with an output rate greater than 10 Mega 
Samples per Second (MSPS); or
4. A resolution of more than 14 bit with an output rate greater than 2,5 Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS);
d. Field programmable logic devices having a maximum number of single-ended digital input/outputs between 
200 and 700;
e.
Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) processors having a rated execution time for a 1 024 point complex FFT of less 
than 1 ms;
f.
Custom integrated circuits for which the function is unknown, or the control status of the equipment in 
which the integrated circuits will be used is unknown to the manufacturer, having any of the following:
1. More than 144 terminals; or
2. A typical basic propagation delay time of less than 0,4 ns;
g. Traveling-wave “vacuum electronic devices”, pulsed or continuous wave, as follows:
1. Coupled cavity devices, or derivatives thereof;
2. Devices based on helix, folded waveguide, or serpentine waveguide circuits, or derivatives thereof, having 
any of the following:
a. An “instantaneous bandwidth” of half an octave or more and average power (expressed in kW) times 
frequency (expressed in GHz) of more than 0,2; or
b. An “instantaneous bandwidth” of less than half an octave; and average power (expressed in kW) times 
frequency (expressed in GHz) of more than 0,4;
h. Flexible waveguides designed for use at frequencies exceeding 40 GHz;
i.
Surface acoustic wave and surface skimming (shallow bulk) acoustic wave devices, having either of the 
following:
1. A carrier frequency exceeding 1 GHz; or
2. A carrier frequency of 1 GHz or less; and
a. A “frequency side-lobe rejection” exceeding 55 dB;
b. A product of the maximum delay time and bandwidth (time in μs and bandwidth in MHz) of more 
than 100; or
c. A dispersive delay of more than 10 μs;
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.A.I.001.i “Frequency side-lobe rejection” is the maximum rejection value specified 
in data sheet.
j.
“Cells” as follows:
1. “Primary cells” having an “energy density” of 550 Wh/kg or less at 293 K (20 oC);
2. “Secondary cells” having an “energy density” of 350 Wh/kg or less at 293 K (20 oC);
Note: X.A.I.001.j does not control batteries, including single cell batteries.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
18/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
Technical Notes:
1. For the purpose of X.A.I.001.j energy density (Wh/kg) is calculated from the nominal voltage multiplied by the 
nominal capacity in ampere-hours (Ah) divided by the mass in kilograms. If the nominal capacity is not stated, 
energy density is calculated from the nominal voltage squared then multiplied by the discharge duration in hours 
divided by the discharge load in Ohms and the mass in kilograms.
2. For the purpose of X.A.I.001.j, a “cell” is defined as an electrochemical device, which has positive and negative 
electrodes, and electrolyte, and is a source of electrical energy. It is the basic building block of a battery.
3. For the purpose of X.A.I.001.j.1, a “primary cell” is a “cell” that is not designed to be charged by any other source.
4. For the purpose of X.A.I.001.j.2, a “secondary cell” is a “cell” that is designed to be charged by an external electrical 
source.
k. “Superconductive” electromagnets or solenoids specially designed to be fully charged or discharged in less 
than one minute, having all of the following:
Note: X.A.I.001.k does not control “superconductive” electromagnets or solenoids designed for Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging (MRI) medical equipment.
1. Maximum energy delivered during the discharge divided by the duration of the discharge of more than 
500 kJ per minute;
2. Inner diameter of the current carrying windings of more than 250 mm; and
3. Rated for a magnetic induction of more than 8T or “overall current density” in the winding of more than 
300 A/mm2;
l.
Circuits or systems for electromagnetic energy storage, containing components manufactured from 
“superconductive” materials specially designed for operation at temperatures below the “critical temperature” 
of at least one of their “superconductive” constituents, having all of the following:
1. Resonant operating frequencies exceeding 1 MHz;
2. A stored energy density of 1 MJ/m3 or more; and
3. A discharge time of less than 1 ms;
m. Hydrogen/hydrogen-isotope thyratrons of ceramic-metal construction and rate for a peak current of 
500 A or more;
n. Ceramic frequency filters;
o. Solar cells, cell-interconnect-coverglass (CIC) assemblies, solar panels, and solar arrays, which are “space 
qualified” and not controlled by 3A001.e.4 (1);
p. Cermet trimmers.
X.A.I.002 General purpose “electronic assemblies”, modules and equipment.
a. Electronic test equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
b. Digital instrumentation magnetic tape data recorders having any of the following characteristics:
1. A maximum digital interface transfer rate exceeding 60 Mbit/s and employing helical scan techniques;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
19/110
(1)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
2. A maximum digital interface transfer rate exceeding 120 Mbit/s and employing fixed head techniques; or
3. “Space qualified”;
c. Equipment, with a maximum digital interface transfer rate exceeding 60 Mbit/s, designed to convert digital 
video magnetic tape recorders for use as digital instrumentation data recorders;
d. Non-modular analogue oscilloscopes having a bandwidth of 1 GHz or greater;
e. Modular analogue oscilloscope systems having either of the following characteristics:
1. A mainframe with a bandwidth of 1 GHz or greater; or
2. Plug-in modules with an individual bandwidth of 4 GHz or greater;
f. Analogue sampling oscilloscopes for the analysis of recurring phenomena with an effective bandwidth greater 
than 4 GHz;
g. Digital oscilloscopes and transient recorders, using analogue-to-digital conversion techniques, capable of 
storing transients by sequentially sampling single-shot inputs at successive intervals of less than 1 ns (greater 
than 1 Giga Samples per Second (GSPS)), digitising to 8 bits or greater resolution and storing 256 or more 
samples.
Note: X.A.I.002 controls the following specially designed components for analogue oscilloscopes:
1. Plug-in units;
2. External amplifiers;
3. Pre-amplifiers;
4. Sampling devices;
5. Cathode ray tubes.
X.A.I.003 Specific processing equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as 
follows:
a. Frequency changers and their specially designed components, other than those specified in the CML or in 
Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
b. Mass spectrometers, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
c. All flash X-ray machines, or components of pulsed power systems designed thereof, including Marx 
generators, high power pulse shaping networks, high voltage capacitors, and triggers;
d. Pulse amplifiers, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
e. Electronic equipment for time delay generation or time interval measurement, as follows:
1. Digital time delay generators with a resolution of 50 ns or less over time intervals of 1 μs or greater; or
2. Multi-channel (three or more) or modular time interval meter and chronometry equipment with resolution 
of 50 ns or less over time intervals of 1 μs or greater;
f. Chromatography and spectrometry analytical instruments.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
20/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
X.B.I.001 Equipment for the manufacture of electronic components or materials, as follows and specially designed 
components and accessories therefor:
a. Equipment specially designed for the manufacture of electron tubes, optical elements and specially designed 
components therefor controlled by 3A001 (2) or X.A.I.001;
b. Equipment specially designed for the manufacture of semiconductor devices, integrated circuits and 
“electronic assemblies”, as follows, and systems incorporating or having the characteristics of such equipment:
Note: X.B.I.001.b. also controls equipment used or modified for use in the manufacture of other devices, such as imaging 
devices, electro-optical devices, acoustic-wave devices.
1. Equipment for the processing of materials for the manufacture of devices and components as specified in 
the heading of X.B.I.001.b, as follows:
Note: X.B.I.001 does not control quartz furnace tubes, furnace liners, paddles, boats (except specially designed caged 
boats), bubblers, cassettes or crucibles specially designed for the processing equipment controlled by X.B.I.001.b.1.
a.
Equipment for producing polycrystalline silicon and materials controlled by 3C001 (3);
b. Equipment specially designed for purifying or processing III/V and II/VI semiconductor materials 
controlled by 3C001, 3C002, 3C003, 3C004, or 3C005 (4) except crystal pullers, for which see X.B. 
I.001.b.1.c below;
c.
Crystal pullers and furnaces, as follows:
Note: X.B.I.001.b.1.c does not control diffusion and oxidation furnaces.
1. Annealing or recrystallizing equipment other than constant temperature furnaces employing high 
rates of energy transfer capable of processing wafers at a rate exceeding 0,005 m2 per minute;
2. “Stored program controlled” crystal pullers having any of the following characteristics:
a. Rechargeable without replacing the crucible container;
b. Capable of operation at pressures above 2,5 x 105 Pa; or
c. Capable of pulling crystals of a diameter exceeding 100 mm;
d. “Stored program controlled” equipment for epitaxial growth having any of the following 
characteristics:
1. Capable of producing silicon layer with a thickness uniform to less than ± 2,5 % across a distance of 
200 mm or more;
2. Capable of producing a layer of any material other than silicon with a thickness uniformity across 
the wafer of equal to or better than ± 3,5 %; or
3. Rotation of individual wafers during processing;
e.
Molecular beam epitaxial growth equipment;
f.
Magnetically enhanced “sputtering” equipment with specially designed integral load locks capable of 
transferring wafers in an isolated vacuum environment;
g. Equipment specially designed for ion implantation, ion-enhanced or photo-enhanced diffusion, having 
any of the following characteristics:
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
21/110
(2)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(3)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(4)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
1. Patterning capability;
2. Beam energy (accelerating voltage) exceeding 200 keV;
3. Optimised to operate at a beam energy (accelerating voltage) of less than 10 keV; or
4. Capable of high energy oxygen implant into a heated “substrate”;
h. “Stored program controlled” equipment for the selective removal (etching) by means of anisotropic dry 
methods (e.g., plasma), as follows:
1. “Batch types” having either of the following:
a. End-point detection, other than optical emission spectroscopy types; or
b. Reactor operational (etching) pressure of 26,66 Pa or less;
2. “Single wafer types” having any of the following:
a. End-point detection, other than optical emission spectroscopy types;
b. Reactor operational (etching) pressure of 26,66 Pa or less; or
c. Cassette-to-cassette and load locks wafer handling;
Notes:
1. “Batch types” refers to machines not specially designed for production processing of single wafers. Such 
machines can process two or more wafers simultaneously with common process parameters, e.g., RF power, 
temperature, etch gas species, flow rates.
2. “Single wafer types” refers to machines specially designed for production processing of single wafers. These 
machines may use automatic wafer handling techniques to load a single wafer into the equipment for 
processing. The definition includes equipment that can load and process several wafers but where the 
etching parameters, e.g., RF power or end point, can be independently determined for each individual wafer.
i.
Chemical vapour deposition (CVD) equipment, e.g., plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) or photo- 
enhanced CVD, for semiconductor device manufacturing, having either of the following capabilities, 
for deposition of oxides, nitrides, metals or polysilicon:
1. Chemical vapour deposition equipment operating below 105 Pa; or
2. PECVD equipment operating either below 60 Pa or having automatic cassette-to-cassette and load 
lock wafer handling;
Note: X.B.I.001.b.1.i does not control low pressure chemical vapour deposition (LPCVD) systems or reactive 
“sputtering” equipment.
j.
Electron beam systems specially designed or modified for mask making or semiconductor device 
processing having any of the following characteristics:
1. Electrostatic beam deflection;
2. Shaped, non-Gaussian beam profile;
3. Digital-to-analogue conversion rate exceeding 3 MHz;
4. Digital-to-analogue conversion accuracy exceeding 12 bit; or
5. Target-to-beam position feedback control precision of 1 μm or finer;
Note: X.B.I.001.b.1.j does not control electron beam deposition systems or general purpose scanning electron 
microscopes.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
22/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
k. Surface finishing equipment for the processing of semiconductor wafers as follows:
1. Specially designed equipment for backside processing of wafers thinner than 100 μm and the 
subsequent separation thereof; or
2. Specially designed equipment for achieving a surface roughness of the active surface of a processed 
wafer with a two-sigma value of 2 μm or less, total indicator reading (TIR);
Note: X.B.I.001.b.1.k does not control single-side lapping and polishing equipment for wafer surface finishing.
l.
Interconnection equipment which includes common single or multiple vacuum chambers specially 
designed to permit the integration of any equipment controlled by X.B.I.001 into a complete system;
m. “Stored program controlled” equipment using “lasers” for the repair or trimming of “monolithic 
integrated circuits” with either of the following characteristics:
1. Positioning accuracy less than ± 1 μm; or
2. Spot size (kerf width) less than 3 μm.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.B.I.001.b.1, “sputtering” is an overlay coating process wherein positively 
charged ions are accelerated by an electric field towards the surface of a target (coating material). The kinetic energy of 
the impacting ions is sufficient to cause target surface atoms to be released and deposited on the substrate. (Note: 
Triode, magnetron or radio frequency sputtering to increase adhesion of coating and rate of deposition are ordinary 
modifications of the process.)
2. Masks, mask substrates, mask-making equipment and image transfer equipment for the manufacture of 
devices and components as specified in the heading of X.B.I.001, as follows:
Note: The term masks refers to those used in electron beam lithography, X-ray lithography, and ultraviolet 
lithography, as well as the usual ultraviolet and visible photo-lithography.
a. Finished masks, reticles and designs therefor, except:
1. Finished masks or reticles for the production of integrated circuits not controlled by 3A001 (5); or
2. Masks or reticles, having both of the following characteristics:
a. Their design is based on geometries of 2,5 μm or more; and
b. The design does not include special features to alter the intended use by means of production 
equipment or “software”;
b. Mask substrates as follows:
1. Hard surface (e.g., chromium, silicon, molybdenum) coated “substrates” (e.g., glass, quartz, sapphire) 
for the preparation of masks having dimensions exceeding 125 mm x 125 mm; or
2. Substrates specially designed for X-ray masks;
c. Equipment, other than general purpose computers, specially designed for computer aided design (CAD) 
of semiconductor devices or integrated circuits;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
23/110
(5)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
d. Equipment or machines, as follows, for mask or reticle fabrication:
1. Photo-optical step and repeat cameras capable of producing arrays larger than 100 mm x 100 mm, 
or capable of producing a single exposure larger than 6 mm x 6 mm in the image (i.e., focal) plane, 
or capable of producing line widths of less than 2,5 μm in the photoresist on the “substrate”;
2. Mask or reticle fabrication equipment using ion or “laser” beam lithography capable of producing 
line widths of less than 2,5 μm; or
3. Equipment or holders for altering masks or reticles or adding pellicles to remove defects;
Note: X.B.I.001.b.2.d.1 and b.2.d.2 do not control mask fabrication equipment using photo-optical methods 
which was either commercially available before 1 January 1980, or has a performance no better than such 
equipment.
e. “Stored program controlled” equipment for the inspection of masks, reticles or pellicles with:
1. A resolution of 0,25 μm or finer; and
2. A precision of 0,75 μm or finer over a distance in one or two coordinates of 63,5 mm or more;
Note: X.B.I.001.b.2.e does not control general purpose scanning electron microscopes except when specially 
designed and instrumented for automatic pattern inspection.
f. Align and expose equipment for wafer production using photo-optical or X-ray methods, e.g., 
lithography equipment, including both projection image transfer equipment and step and repeat (direct 
step on wafer) or step and scan (scanner) equipment, capable of performing any of the following 
functions:
Note: X.B.I.001.b.2.f does not control photo-optical contact and proximity mask align and expose equipment or 
contact image transfer equipment.
1. Production of a pattern size of less than 2,5 μm;
2. Alignment with a precision finer than ± 0,25 μm (3 sigma);
3. Machine-to-machine overlay no better than ± 0,3 μm; or
4. A light source wavelength shorter than 400 nm;
g. Electron beam, ion beam or X-ray equipment for projection image transfer capable of producing 
patterns less than 2,5 μm;
Note: For focused, deflected-beam systems (direct write systems), see X.B.I.001.b.1.j.
h. Equipment using “lasers” for direct write on wafers capable of producing patterns less than 2,5 μm.
3. Equipment for the assembly of integrated circuits, as follows:
a. “Stored program controlled” die bonders having all of the following characteristics:
1. Specially designed for “hybrid integrated circuits”;
2. X-Y stage positioning travel exceeding 37,5 x 37,5 mm; and
3. Placement accuracy in the X-Y plane of finer than ± 10 μm;
b. “Stored program controlled” equipment for producing multiple bonds in a single operation (e.g., beam 
lead bonders, chip carrier bonders, tape bonders);
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
24/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
c. Semi-automatic or automatic hot cap sealers, in which the cap is heated locally to a higher temperature 
than the body of the package, specially designed for ceramic microcircuit packages controlled 
by 3A001 (6) and that have a throughput equal to or more than one package per minute.
Note: X.B.I.001.b.3 does not control general purpose resistance type spot welders.
4. Filters for clean rooms capable of providing an air environment of 10 or less particles of 0,3 μm or smaller 
per 0,02832 m3 and filter materials therefor.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.B.I.001, “stored program controlled” is a control using instructions stored in an 
electronic storage that a processor can execute in order to direct the performance of predetermined functions. Equipment may 
be “stored program controlled” whether the electronic storage is internal or external to the equipment.
X.B.I.002 Equipment for the inspection or testing of electronic components and materials, and specially designed 
components and accessories therefor.
a. Equipment specially designed for the inspection or testing of electron tubes, optical elements and specially 
designed components therefor controlled by 3A001 (7) or X.A.I.001;
b. Equipment specially designed for the inspection or testing of semiconductor devices, integrated circuits and 
“electronic assemblies”, as follows, and systems incorporating or having the characteristics of such equipment:
Note: X.B.I.002.b also controls equipment used or modified for use in the inspection or testing of other devices, such as 
imaging devices, electro-optical devices, acoustic-wave devices.
1. “Stored program controlled” inspection equipment for the automatic detection of defects, errors or 
contaminants of 0,6 μm or less in or on processed wafers, substrates, other than printed circuit boards or 
chips, using optical image acquisition techniques for pattern comparison;
Note: X.B.I.002.b.1 does not control general purpose scanning electron microscopes, except when specially designed 
and instrumented for automatic pattern inspection.
2. Specially designed “stored program controlled” measuring and analysis equipment, as follows:
a. Specially designed for the measurement of oxygen or carbon content in semiconductor materials;
b. Equipment for line width measurement with a resolution of 1 μm or finer;
c. Specially designed flatness measurement instruments capable of measuring deviations from flatness of 
10 μm or less with a resolution of 1 μm or finer.
3. “Stored program controlled” wafer probing equipment having any of the following characteristics:
a. Positioning accuracy finer than 3,5 μm;
b. Capable of testing devices having more than 68 terminals; or
c. Capable of testing at a frequency exceeding 1 GHz;
4. Test equipment as follows:
a. “Stored program controlled” equipment specially designed for testing discrete semiconductor devices 
and unencapsulated dice, capable of testing at frequencies exceeding 18 GHz;
Technical Note: Discrete semiconductor devices include photocells and solar cells.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
25/110
(6)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(7)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
b. “Stored program controlled” equipment specially designed for testing integrated circuits and “electronic 
assemblies” thereof, capable of functional testing:
1. At a “pattern rate” exceeding 20 MHz; or
2. At a “pattern rate” exceeding 10 MHz but not exceeding 20 MHz and capable of testing packages of 
more than 68 terminals.
Notes: X.B.I.002.b.4.b does not control test equipment specially designed for testing:
1. Memories;
2. Assemblies or a class of “electronic assemblies” for home and entertainment applications; and
3. Electronic components, “electronic assemblies” and integrated circuits not controlled by 3A001 (8) or X.A. 
I.001 provided such test equipment does not incorporate computing facilities with “user accessible 
programmability”.
Technical Note: For purposes of X.B.I.002.b.4.b, “pattern rate” is defined as the maximum frequency of digital 
operation of a tester. It is therefore equivalent to the highest data rate that a tester can provide in non-multiplexed 
mode. It is also referred to as test speed, maximum digital frequency or maximum digital speed.
c. Equipment specially designed for determining the performance of focal-plane arrays at wavelengths of 
more than 1 200 nm, using “stored program controlled” measurements or computer aided evaluation 
and having any of the following characteristics:
1. Using scanning light spot diameters of less than 0,12 mm;
2. Designed for measuring photosensitive performance parameters and for evaluating frequency 
response, modulation transfer function, uniformity of responsivity or noise; or
3. Designed for evaluating arrays capable of creating images with more than 32 x 32 line elements;
5. Electron beam test systems designed for operation at 3 keV or below, or “laser” beam systems, for 
non-contactive probing of powered-up semiconductor devices having any of the following:
a. Stroboscopic capability with either beam blanking or detector strobing;
b. An electron spectrometer for voltage measurements with a resolution of less than 0,5 V; or
c. Electrical tests fixtures for performance analysis of integrated circuits;
Note: X.B.I.002.b.5 does not control scanning electron microscopes, except when specially designed and instrumented 
for non-contactive probing of a powered-up semiconductor device.
6. “Stored program controlled” multifunctional focused ion beam systems specially designed for 
manufacturing, repairing, physical layout analysis and testing of masks or semiconductor devices and 
having either of the following characteristics:
a. Target-to-beam position feedback control precision of 1 μm or finer; or
b. Digital-to-analogue conversion accuracy exceeding 12 bit;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
26/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(8)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
7. Particle measuring systems employing “lasers” designed for measuring particle size and concentration in 
air having both of the following characteristics:
a. Capable of measuring particle sizes of 0,2 μm or less at a flow rate of 0,02832 m3 per minute or more; 
and
b. Capable of characterizing Class 10 clean air or better.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.B.I.002, “stored program controlled” is a control using instructions stored in an 
electronic storage that a processor can execute in order to direct the performance of predetermined functions. Equipment may 
be “stored program controlled” whether the electronic storage is internal or external to the equipment.
X.B.I.003 Equipment for the manufacture of Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) and specially designed components and 
accessories therefor, as follows:
a. Film processing equipment;
b. Solder mask coating equipment;
c. Photo plotter equipment;
d. Plating or electroplating deposition equipment;
e. Vacuum chambers and presses;
f. Roll laminators;
g. Alignment equipment; or
h. Etching equipment.
X.B.I.004 Automated optical inspection equipment for testing Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs), based on optical or electrical 
sensors, and capable to detect any of the following quality defects:
a. Spacing, area, volume or height;
b. Bill boarding;
c. Components (presence, absence, flipped, offset, polarity, or skew);
d. Solder (bridging, insufficient solder joints);
e. Leads (insufficient paste, lifting);
f. Tombstoning; or
g. Electrical (shorts, opens, resistance, capacitance, power, grid performance).
X.C.I.001 Positive resists designed for semiconductor lithography specially adjusted (optimised) for use at wavelengths 
between 370 and 193 nm.
X.C.I.002 Chemicals and materials of the type used in the production of Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs), as follows:
a. PCB composite substrates made of glass fibre or cotton (e.g. FR-4, FR-2, FR-6, CEM-1, G-10, etc.);
b. Multilayer PCB substrates, containing at least one layer of any of the following materials:
1. Aluminium;
2. Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE); or
3. Ceramic materials (e.g. alumina, titanium oxide, etc.);
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
27/110
c. Etchant chemicals:
1. Ferric chloride (7705-08-0);
2. Cupric chloride (7447-39-4);
3. Ammonium persulphate (7727-54-0);
4. Sodium persulphate (7775-27-1); or
5. Chemical preparations specially designed for etching and containing any of the chemicals included in X.C. 
I.002.c.1 to X.C.I.002.c.4.
Note: X.C.I.002.c does not control “chemical mixtures” containing one or more of the chemicals specified in entry X.C. 
I.002.c in which no individually specified chemical constitutes more than 10 % by the weight of the mixture.
d. Copper foil with a minimum purity 95 % and of a thickness less than 100 μm;
e. Polymeric substances and films thereof of less than 0,5 mm of thickness, as follows:
1. Aromatic polyimides;
2. Parylenes;
3. Benzocyclobutenes (BCBs); or
4. Polybenzoxazoles.
X.D.I.001 “Software” specially designed for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of electronic devices or components 
controlled by X.A.I.001, general purpose electronic equipment controlled by X.A.I.002, or manufacturing and 
test equipment controlled by X.B.I.001 and X.B.I.002; or “software” specially designed for the “use” of equipment 
controlled by 3B001.g and 3B001.h (9).
X.D.I.002 “Software” specially designed for the test, “development” or “production” of Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs).
X.E.I.001 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of electronic devices or components controlled by X. 
A.I.001, general purpose electronic equipment controlled by X.A.I.002, or manufacturing and test equipment 
controlled by X.B.I.001 or X.B.I.002, or materials controlled by X.C.I.001.
X.E.I.002 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs).
Category II – Computers
Note: Category II does not control goods for the personal use of the natural persons.
X.A.II.001 Computers, “electronic assemblies” and related equipment, not controlled by 4A001 or 4A003 (10), and specially 
designed components therefor.
Note: The control status of the “digital computers” and related equipment described in X.A.II.001 is determined by the 
control status of other equipment or systems provided:
a. The “digital computers” or related equipment are essential for the operation of the other equipment or systems;
b. The “digital computers” or related equipment are not a “principal element” of the other equipment or systems; and
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
28/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(9)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(10)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
N.B.1: The control status of “signal processing” or “image enhancement” equipment specially designed for other 
equipment with functions limited to those required for the other equipment is determined by the control status of the other 
equipment even if it exceeds the “principal element” criterion.
N.B.2: For the control status of “digital computers” or related equipment for telecommunications equipment, see 
Category 5, Part 1 (Telecommunications) (11).
c. The “technology” for the “digital computers” and related equipment is determined by 4E (12).
a. Electronic computers and related equipment, and “electronic assemblies” and specially designed components 
therefor, rated for operation at an ambient temperature above 343 K (70 oC);
b. “Digital computers”, including equipment of “signal processing” or “image enhancement”, having an 
“Adjusted Peak Performance” (“APP”) equal to or greater than 0,0128 Weighted TeraFLOPS (WT);
c. “Electronic assemblies” that are specially designed or modified to enhance performance by aggregation of 
processors, as follows:
1. Designed to be capable of aggregation in configurations of 16 or more processors;
2. Not used;
Note 1: X.A.II.001.c applies only to “electronic assemblies” and programmable interconnections with a “APP” not 
exceeding the limits in X.A.II.001.b, when shipped as unintegrated “electronic assemblies”. It does not apply to 
“electronic assemblies” inherently limited by nature of their design for use as related equipment controlled by X.A.II.001. 
k.
Note 2: X.A.II.001.c does not control any “electronic assembly” specially designed for a product or family of products 
whose maximum configuration does not exceed the limits of X.A.II.001.b.
d. Not used;
e. Not used;
f. Equipment for “signal processing” or “image enhancement” having an “Adjusted Peak Performance” (“APP”) 
equal to or greater than 0,0128 Weighted TeraFLOPS WT;
g. Not used;
h. Not used;
i. Equipment containing “terminal interface equipment” exceeding the limits in X.A.III.101;
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.A.II.001.i, “terminal interface equipment” means equipment at which information 
enters or leaves the telecommunication system, e.g. telephone, data device, computer, etc.
j. Equipment specially designed to provide external interconnection of “digital computers” or associated 
equipment that allows communications at data rates exceeding 80 Mbyte/s.
Note: X.A.II.001.j does not control internal interconnection equipment (e.g., backplanes, buses) passive interconnection 
equipment, “network access controllers” or “communication channel controllers”.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.A.II.001.j, “communication channel controllers” is the physical interface which 
controls the flow of synchronous or asynchronous digital information. It is an assembly that can be integrated into 
computer or telecommunications equipment to provide communications access.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
29/110
(11)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(12)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
k. Hybrid computers and “electronic assemblies” and specially designed components therefor containing 
analogue-to-digital converters having all of the following characteristics:
1. 32 channels or more; and
2. A resolution of 14 bit (plus sign bit) or more with a conversion rate of 200 000 Hz or more.
X.D.II.001 “Program” proof and validation “software”, “software” allowing the automatic generation of “source codes”, and 
operating system “software” that are specially designed for “real-time processing” equipment.
a. “Program” proof and validation “software” using mathematical and analytical techniques and designed or 
modified for “programs” having more than 500 000 “source code” instructions;
b. “Software” allowing the automatic generation of “source codes” from data acquired on line from external 
sensors described in the Regulation (EU) 2021/821; or
c. Operating system “software” specially designed for “real-time processing” equipment that guarantees 
a “global interrupt latency time” of less than 20 μs.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.D.II.001, “global interrupt latency time” is the time taken by the computer system to 
recognise an interrupt due to the event, service the interrupt and perform a context switch to an alternate memory-resident 
task waiting on the interrupt.
X.D.II.002 “Software” other than that controlled in 4D001 (13) specially designed or modified for the “development”, 
“production” or “use” of equipment controlled by 4A101 (14).
X.E.II.001 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.II.001, or “software” 
controlled by X.D.II.001 or X.D.II.002.
X.E.II.002 “Technology” for the “development” or “production” of equipment designed for “multi-data-stream processing”.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.E.II.002, “multi-data-stream processing” is a microprogram or equipment architecture 
technique that permits simultaneous processing of two or more data sequences under the control of one or more instruction 
sequences by means such as:
1. Single Instruction Multiple Data (SIMD) architectures such as vector or array processors;
2. Multiple Single Instruction Multiple Data (MSIMD) architectures;
3. Multiple Instruction Multiple Data (MIMD) architectures, including those that are tightly coupled, closely coupled or 
loosely coupled; or
4. Structured arrays of processing elements, including systolic arrays.
Category III. Part 1 – Telecommunications
Note: Category III.Part 1 does not control goods for the personal use of the natural persons.
X.A.III.101 Telecommunication equipment.
a. Any type of telecommunications equipment, not controlled by 5A001.a (15), specially designed to operate 
outside the temperature range from 219 K (– 54 oC) to 397 K (124 oC).
b. Telecommunication transmission equipment and systems, and specially designed components and 
accessories therefor, having any of the following characteristics, functions or features:
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
30/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(13)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(14)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(15)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
Note: Telecommunication transmission equipment:
a. Categorised as follows, or combinations thereof:
1.
Radio equipment (e.g., transmitters, receivers and transceivers);
2.
Line terminating equipment;
3.
Intermediate amplifier equipment;
4.
Repeater equipment;
5.
Regenerator equipment;
6.
Translation encoders (transcoders);
7.
Multiplex equipment (statistical mutiplex included);
8.
Modulators/demodulators (modems);
9.
Transmultiplex equipment (see CCITT Rec. G701);
10. “Stored program controlled” digital crossconnection equipment;
11. “Gateways” and bridges;
12. “Media access units”; and
b. Designed for use in single or multi-channel communication via any of the following:
1. Wire (line);
2. Coaxial cable;
3. Optical fibre cable;
4. Electromagnetic radiation; or
5. Underwater acoustic wave propagation.
1. Employing digital techniques, including digital processing of analogue signals, and designed to operate at 
a “digital transfer rate” at the highest multiplex level exceeding 45 Mbit/s or a “total digital transfer rate” 
exceeding 90 Mbit/s;
Note: X.A.III.101.b.1 does not control equipment specially designed to be integrated and operated in any satellite 
system for civil use.
2. Modems using the “bandwidth of one voice channel” with a “data signalling rate” exceeding 9 600 bits 
per second;
3. Being “stored program controlled” digital cross connect equipment with “digital transfer rate” exceeding 
8,5 Mbit/s per port;
4. Being equipment containing any of the following:
a. “Network access controllers” and their related common medium having a “digital transfer rate” 
exceeding 33 Mbit/s; or
b. “Communication channel controllers” with a digital output having a “data signalling rate” exceeding 
64 000 bit/s per channel;
Note: If any uncontrolled equipment contains a “network access controller”, it cannot have any type of 
telecommunications interface, except those described in, but not controlled by X.A.III.101.b.4.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
31/110
5. Employing a “laser” and having any of the following characteristics:
a. A transmission wavelength exceeding 1 000 nm; or
b. Employing analogue techniques and having a bandwidth exceeding 45 MHz;
c. Employing coherent optical transmission or coherent optical detection techniques (also called optical 
heterodyne or homodyne techniques);
d. Employing wavelength division multiplexing techniques; or
e. Performing “optical amplification”;
6. Radio equipment operating at input or output frequencies exceeding:
a. 31 GHz for satellite-earth station applications; or
b. 26,5 GHz for other applications;
Note: X.A.III.101.b.6 does not control equipment for civil use when conforming with an International 
Telecommunications Union (ITU) allocated band between 26,5 GHz and 31 GHz.
7. Being radio equipment employing any of the following:
a. Quadrature-amplitude-modulation (QAM) techniques above level 4 if the “total digital transfer rate” 
exceeds 8,5 Mbit/s;
b. QAM techniques above level 16 if the “total digital transfer rate” is equal to or less than 8,5 Mbit/s;
c. Other digital modulation techniques and having a “spectral efficiency” exceeding 3 bit/s/Hz; or
d. Operating in the 1,5 MHz to 87,5 MHz band and incorporating adaptive techniques providing more 
than 15 dB suppression of an interfering signal.
Notes:
1. X.A.III.101.b.7 does not control equipment specially designed to be integrated and operated in any satellite 
system for civil use.
2. X.A.III.101.b.7 does not control radio relay equipment for operation in an International Telecommunications 
Union (ITU) allocated band:
a. Having any of the following:
1. Not exceeding 960 MHz; or
2. With a “total digital transfer rate” not exceeding 8,5 Mbit/s; and
b. Having a “spectral efficiency” not exceeding 4 bit/s/Hz.
c. “Stored program controlled” switching equipment and related signalling systems, having any of the 
following characteristics, functions or features, and specially designed components and accessories therefor:
Note: Statistical multiplexers with digital input and digital output which provide switching are treated as “stored 
program controlled” switches.
1.
“Data (message) switching” equipment or systems designed for “packet-mode operation”, “electronic 
assemblies” and components therefor, other than those specified in the CML or in Regula­
tion (EU) 2021/821;
2.
Not used;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
32/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
3.
Routing or switching of “datagram” packets;
Note: X.A.III.101.c.3 does not control networks restricted to using only “network access controllers” or to “network 
access controllers” themselves.
4.
Not used;
5.
Multi-level priority and pre-emption for circuit switching;
Note: X.A.III.101.c.5 does not control single-level call preemption.
6.
Designed for automatic hand-off of cellular radio calls to other cellular switches or automatic 
connection to a centralised subscriber data base common to more than one switch;
7.
Containing “stored program controlled” digital cross connect equipment with “digital transfer rate” 
exceeding 8,5 Mbit/s per port;
8.
“Common channel signalling” operating in either non-associated or quasi-associated mode of operation;
9.
“Dynamic adaptive routing”;
10. Being packet switches, circuit switches and routers with ports or lines exceeding any of the following:
a. A “data signalling rate” of 64 000 bit/s per channel for a “communications channel controller”; or
Note: X.A.III.101.c.10.a does not control multiplex composite links composed only of communication 
channels not individually controlled by X.A.III.101.b.1.
b. A “digital transfer rate” of 33 Mbit/s for a “network access controller” and related common media;
Note: X.A.III.101.c.10 does not control packet switches or routers with ports or lines not exceeding the limits 
in X.A.III.101.c.10.
11. “Optical switching”;
12. Employing “Asynchronous Transfer Mode” (“ATM”) techniques.
d. Optical fibres and optical fibre cables of more than 50 m in length designed for single mode operation;
e. Centralised network control having all of the following characteristics:
1. Receives data from the nodes; and
2. Process these data in order to provide control of traffic not requiring operator decisions, and thereby 
performing “dynamic adaptive routing”;
Note 1: X.A.III.101.e does not include cases of routing decisions taken on predefined information.
Note 2: X.A.III.101.e does not preclude control of traffic as a function of predictable statistical traffic conditions.
f. Phased array antennas, operating above 10,5 GHz, containing active elements and distributed components, 
and designed to permit electronic control of beam shaping and pointing, except for landing systems with 
instruments meeting International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards (microwave landing 
systems (MLS));
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
33/110
g. Mobile communications equipment other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, 
“electronic assemblies” and components therefor;
h. Radio relay communications equipment designed for use at frequencies equal to or exceeding 19,7 GHz and 
components therefor, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821; or
i. Video game controllers, gaming controllers, flight simulator controllers, gamepads, joysticks and other 
input units, for video game consoles or entertainment systems, either corded or cordless.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.A.III.101:
1)
“Asynchronous transfer mode” (“ATM”) is a transfer mode in which the information is organised into cells; it is 
asynchronous in the sense that the recurrence of cells depends on the required or instantaneous bit rate.
2)
“Bandwidth of one voice channel” is data communication equipment designed to operate in one voice channel of 3 100 
Hz, as defined in CCITT Recommendation G.151.
3)
“Communications channel controller” is the physical interface that controls the flow of synchronous or asynchronous 
digital information. It is an assembly that can be integrated into computer or telecommunications equipment to 
provide communications access.
4)
“Datagram” is a self-contained, independent entity of data carrying sufficient information to be routed from the source 
to the destination data terminal equipment without reliance on earlier exchanges between this source and destination 
data terminal equipment and the transporting network.
5)
“Fast select” is a facility applicable to virtual calls that allows data terminal equipment to expand the possibility to 
transmit data in call set-up and clearing “packets” beyond the basic capabilities of a virtual call.
6)
“Gateway” is the function, realised by any combination of equipment and “software”, to carry out the conversion of 
conventions for representing, processing or communicating information used on one system into the corresponding, 
but different conventions used in another system.
7)
“Integrated Services Digital Network” (ISDN) is a unified end- to-end digital network, in which data originating from 
all types of communication (e.g., voice, text, data, still and moving pictures) are transmitted from one port (terminal) 
in the exchange (switch) over one access line to and from the subscriber.
8)
“Packet” is a group of binary digits including data and call control signals that is switched as a composite whole. The 
data, call control signals, and possible error control information are arranged in a specified format.
9)
“Common channel signalling” means the transmission of control information (signalling) via a separate channel than 
that used for the messages. The signalling channel usually controls multiple message channels.
10) “Data signalling rate” means the rate, as defined in ITU Recommendation 53-36, taking into account that, for 
non-binary modulation, baud and bit per second are not equal. Bits for coding, checking and synchronization 
functions are to be included.
11) “Dynamic adaptive routing” means Automatic rerouting of traffic based on sensing and analysis of current actual 
network conditions.
12) “Media access unit” means equipment that contains one or more communication interfaces (“network access 
controller”, “communications channel controller”, modem or computer bus) to connect terminal equipment to 
a network.
13) “Spectral efficiency” is the “digital transfer rate” [bits/s] / 6 dB spectrum bandwidth in Hz.
14) “Stored program controlled” is a control using instructions stored in an electronic storage that a processor can execute 
in order to direct the performance of predetermined functions.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
34/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
Note: Equipment may be “stored program controlled” whether the electronic storage is internal or external to the equipment.
X.B.III.101 Telecommunications test equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
X.C.III.101 Preforms of glass or of any other material optimised for the manufacture of optical fibres controlled by X.A. 
III.101.
X.D.III.101 “Software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled 
by X.A.III.101 and X.B.III.101, and dynamic adaptive routing “software” as described as follows:
a. “Software”, other than in machine-executable form, specially designed for “dynamic adaptive routing”;
b. Not used.
X.E.III.101 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.III.101 or X.B. 
III.101, or “software” controlled by X.D.III.101, and other “technologies” as follows:
a. Specific “technologies” as follows:
1. “Technology” for the processing and application of coatings to optical fibre specially designed to make it 
suitable for underwater use;
2. “Technology” for the “development” of equipment employing “Synchronous Digital Hierarchy” (“SDH”) or 
“Synchronous Optical Network” (“SONET”) techniques.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.E.III.101:
1) “Synchronous digital hierarchy” (SDH) is a digital hierarchy providing a means to manage, multiplex, and access 
various forms of digital traffic using a synchronous transmission format on different types of media. The format is based 
on the Synchronous Transport Module (STM) that is defined by CCITT Recommendation G.703, G.707, G.708, 
G.709 and others yet to be published. The first level rate of “SDH” is 155,52 Mbits/s.
2) “Synchronous optical network” (SONET) is a network providing a means to manage, multiplex and access various 
forms of digital traffic using a synchronous transmission format on fibre optics. The format is the North America 
version of “SDH” and also uses the Synchronous Transport Module (STM). However, it uses the Synchronous Transport 
Signal (STS) as the basic transport module with a first level rate of 51,81 Mbits/s. The SONET standards are being 
integrated into those of “SDH”.
Category III. Part 2 – Information Security
Note: Category III. Part 2 does not control goods for the personal use of the natural persons.
X.A.III.201 Equipment as follows:
a. Not used;
b. Not used;
c. Goods classified as mass market encryption in accordance with Cryptography Note – Note 3 to Category 5, 
Part 2 (16).
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
35/110
(16)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
X.D.III.201 “Information Security” “software” as follows:
Note: This entry does not control “software” designed or modified to protect against malicious computer damage, e.g., 
viruses, where the use of “cryptography” is limited to authentication, digital signature and/or the decryption of data or files.
a. Not used;
b. Not used;
c. “Software” classified as mass market encryption “software” in accordance with Cryptography Note – Note 3 
to Category 5, Part 2 (17).
X.E.III.201 “Information Security” “technology” according to the General Technology Note, as follows:
a. Not used;
b. “Technology”, other than specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, for the “use” of mass market 
goods controlled by X.A.III.201.c or mass market “software” controlled by X.D.III.201.c.
Category IV – Sensors and Lasers
X.A.IV.001 Marine or terrestrial acoustic equipment, capable of detecting or locating underwater objects or features or 
positioning surface vessels or underwater vehicles; and specially designed components, other than those 
specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
X.A.IV.002 Optical Sensors as follows:
a. Image intensifier tubes and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
1. Image intensifier tubes having all the following:
a. A peak response in wavelength range exceeding 400 nm, but not exceeding 1 050 nm;
b. A microchannel plate for electron image amplification with a hole pitch (centre-to-centre spacing) of 
less than 25 μm; and
c. Having any of the following:
1. An S-20, S-25 or multialkali photocathode; or
2. A GaAs or GaInAs photocathode;
2. Specially designed microchannel plates having both of the following characteristics:
a. 15 000 or more hollow tubes per plate; and
b. Hole pitch (centre-to-centre spacing) of less than 25 μm.
b. Direct view imaging equipment operating in the visible or infrared spectrum, incorporating image 
intensifier tubes having the characteristics listed in X.A.IV.002.a.1.
X.A.IV.003 Cameras as follows:
a. Cameras that meet the criteria of Note 3 to 6A003.b.4. (18);
b. Not used;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
36/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(17)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(18)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
X.A.IV.004 Optics as follows:
Note: X.A.IV.004 does not control optical filters with fixed air gaps or Lyot-type filters.
a. Optical filters:
1. For wavelengths longer than 250 nm, comprised of multi-layer optical coatings and having either of the 
following:
a. Bandwidths equal to or less than 1 nm Full Width Half Intensity (FWHI) and peak transmission of 
90 % or more; or
b. Bandwidths equal to or less than 0,1 nm FWHI and peak transmission of 50 % or more;
2. For wavelengths longer than 250 nm, and having all of the following:
a. Tunable over a spectral range of 500 nm or more;
b. Instantaneous optical bandpass of 1,25 nm or less;
c. Wavelength resettable within 0,1 ms to an accuracy of 1 nm or better within the tunable spectral 
range; and
d. A single peak transmission of 91 % or more;
3. Optical opacity switches (filters) with a field of view of 30o or wider and a response time equal to or less 
than 1 ns;
b. “Fluoride fibre” cable, or optical fibres therefor, having an attenuation of less than 4 dB/km in the 
wavelength range exceeding 1 000 nm but not exceeding 3 000 nm;
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.A.IV.004.b “Fluoride fibres” are fibres manufactured from bulk fluoride 
compounds.
X.A.IV.005 “Lasers” as follows:
a. Carbon dioxide (CO2) “lasers” having any of the following:
1. A CW output power exceeding 10 kW;
2. A pulsed output with a “pulse duration” exceeding 10 μs; and
a. An average output power exceeding 10 kW; or
b. A pulsed “peak power” exceeding 100 kW; or
3. A pulsed output with a “pulse duration” equal to or less than 10 μs; and
a. A pulse energy exceeding 5 J per pulse and “peak power” exceeding 2,5 kW; or
b. An average output power exceeding 2,5 kW;
b. Semiconductor lasers, as follows:
1. Individual, single-transverse mode semiconductor “lasers” having:
a. An average output power exceeding 100 mW; or
b. A wavelength exceeding 1 050 nm;
2. Individual, multiple-transverse mode semiconductor “lasers”, or arrays of individual semiconductor 
“lasers”, having a wave-length exceeding 1 050 nm;
c. Ruby “lasers” having an output energy exceeding 20 J per pulse;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
37/110
d. Non-“tunable” “pulsed lasers” having an output wavelength exceeding 975 nm but not exceeding 1 150 nm 
and having any of the following:
1. A “pulse duration” equal to or exceeding 1 ns but not exceeding 1 μs, and having any of the following:
a. A single transverse mode output and having any of the following:
1. A “wall-plug efficiency” exceeding 12 % and an “average output power” exceeding 10 W and 
capable of operating at a pulse repetition frequency greater than 1 kHz; or
2. An “average output power” exceeding 20 W; or
b. A multiple transverse mode output and having any of the following:
1. A “wall-plug efficiency” exceeding 18 % and an “average output power” exceeding 30W;
2. A “peak power” exceeding 200 MW; or
3. An “average output power” exceeding 50 W; or
2. A “pulse duration” exceeding 1 μs and having any of the following:
a. A single transverse mode output and having any of the following:
1. A “wall-plug efficiency” exceeding 12 % and an “average output power” exceeding 10 W and 
capable of operating at a pulse repetition frequency greater than 1 kHz; or
2. An “average output power” exceeding 20 W; or
b. A multiple transverse mode output and having any of the following:
1. A “wall-plug efficiency” exceeding 18 % and an “average output power” exceeding 30 W; or
2. An “average output power” exceeding 500 W;
e. Non-“tunable” continuous wave “(CW) lasers”, having an output wavelength exceeding 975 nm but not 
exceeding 1 150 nm and having any of the following:
1. A single transverse mode output and having any of the following:
a. A “wall-plug efficiency” exceeding 12 % and an “average output power” exceeding 10 W and capable 
of operating at a pulse repetition frequency greater than 1 kHz; or
b. An “average output power” exceeding 50 W; or
2. A multiple transverse mode output and having any of the following:
a. A “wall-plug efficiency” exceeding 18 % and an “average output power” exceeding 30 W; or
b. An “average output power” exceeding 500 W;
Note: X.A.IV.005.e.2.b does not control multiple transverse mode, industrial “lasers” with output power less 
than or equal to 2 kW with a total mass greater than 1 200kg. For the purpose of this note, total mass includes 
all components required to operate the “laser”, e.g., “laser”, power supply, heat exchanger, but excludes external 
optics for beam conditioning and/or delivery.
f. Non-“tunable” “lasers”, having a wavelength exceeding 1 400 nm, but not exceeding 1 555 nm and having 
any of the following:
1. An output energy exceeding 100 mJ per pulse and a pulsed “peak power” exceeding 1 W; or
2. An average or CW output power exceeding 1 W;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
38/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
g. Free electron “lasers”.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.A.IV.005 “Wall-plug efficiency” is defined as the ratio of “laser” output power (or 
“average output power”) to total electrical input power required to operate the “laser”, including the power 
supply/conditioning and thermal conditioning/heat exchanger.
X.A.IV.006 “Magnetometers”, “Superconductive” electromagnetic sensors, and specially designed components therefor, as 
follows:
a. “Magnetometers”, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, having 
a “sensitivity” lower (better) than 1,0 nT (rms) per square root Hz.
Technical Note: For the purposes of X.A.IV.006.a, “sensitivity” (noise level) is the root mean square of the 
device-limited noise floor which is the lowest signal that can be measured.
b. “Superconductive” electromagnetic sensors, components manufactured from “superconductive” materials:
1. Designed for operation at temperatures below the “critical temperature” of at least one of their 
“superconductive” constituents (including Josephson effect devices or “superconductive” quantum 
interference devices (SQUIDS));
2. Designed for sensing electromagnetic field variations at frequencies of 1 kHz or less; and
3. Having any of the following characteristics:
a. Incorporating thin-film SQUIDS with a minimum feature size of less than 2 μm and with associated 
input and output coupling circuits;
b. Designed to operate with a magnetic field slew rate exceeding 1 x 106 magnetic flux quanta per 
second;
c. Designed to function without magnetic shielding in the earth’s ambient magnetic field; or
d. Having a temperature coefficient less (smaller) than 0,1 magnetic flux quantum/K.
X.A.IV.007 Gravity meters (gravimeters) for ground use, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 
2021/821, as follows:
a. Having a static accuracy of less (better) than 100 μGal; or
b. Being of the quartz element (Worden) type.
X.A.IV.008 Radar systems, equipment and major components, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 
2021/821, and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
a. Airborne radar equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, and 
specially designed components therefor;
b. “Space-qualified” “laser” radar or Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) equipment specially designed for 
surveying or for meteorological observation;
c. Millimeter wave enhanced vision radar imaging systems specially designed for rotary wing aircraft and 
having all of the following:
1. Operates at a frequency of 94 GHz;
2. An average output power of less than 20 mW;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
39/110
3. Radar beam width of 1 degree; and
4. Operating range equal to or greater than 1 500 m.
Technical Notes:
1. For the purpose of X.A.IV.008, a “major component” includes any assembled element which forms a portion of an “end 
item” without which the “end item” is inoperable.
2. For the purpose of X.A.IV.008, an “end item” is a system, equipment or assembled commodity ready for its intended 
use.
X.A.IV.009 Specific processing equipment, as follows:
a. Seismic detection equipment not controlled by X.A.IV.009.c;
b. Radiation hardened TV cameras, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821; or
c. Seismic intrusion detection systems that detect, classify and determine the bearing on the source of 
a detected signal.
X.B.IV.001 Equipment, including tools, dies, fixtures or gauges, and other specially designed components and accessories 
therefor, specially designed or modified for any of the following:
a. For the manufacture or inspection of:
1. Free electron “laser” magnet wigglers;
2. Free electron “laser” photo injectors;
b. For the adjustment, to required tolerances, of the longitudinal magnetic field of free electron “lasers”.
X.C.IV.001 Optical sensing fibres that are modified structurally to have a “beat length” of less than 500 mm (high 
birefringence) or optical sensor materials not described in 6C002.b (19) and having a zinc content of equal to or 
more than 6 % by “mole fraction”.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.C.IV.001:
1) “Mole fraction” is defined as the ratio of moles of ZnTe to the sum of the moles of CdTe and ZnTe present in the crystal.
2) “Beat length” is the distance over which two orthogonally polarised signals, initially in phase, must pass in order to 
achieve a 2 Pi radian(s) phase difference.
X.C.IV.002 Optical materials, as follows:
a. Low optical absorption materials, as follows:
1. Bulk fluoride compounds containing ingredients with a purity of 99,999 % or better; or
Note: X.C.IV.002.a.1 controls fluorides of zirconium or aluminium and variants.
2. Bulk fluoride glass made from compounds controlled by 6C004.e.1 (20);
b. “Optical fibre preforms” made from bulk fluoride compounds containing ingredients with a purity of 
99,999 % or better, specially designed for the manufacture of “fluoride fibres” controlled by X.A.IV.004.b.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
40/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(19)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(20)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.C.IV.002:
1) “Fluoride fibres” are fibres manufactured from bulk fluoride compounds.
2) “Optical fibre preforms” are bars, ingots, or rods of glass, plastic or other materials that have been specially processed 
for use in fabricating optical fibres. The characteristics of the preform determine the basic parameters of the resultant 
drawn optical fibres.
X.D.IV.001 “Software”, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, specially designed for the 
“development”, “production”, or “use” of goods controlled by 6A002, 6A003 (21), X.A.IV.001, X.A.IV.006, X.A. 
IV.007, or X.A.IV.008.
X.D.IV.002 “Software” specially designed for the “development” or “production” of equipment controlled by X.A.IV.002, X. 
A.IV.004, or X.A.IV.005.
X.D.IV.003 Other “software”, as follows:
a. Air Traffic Control (ATC) “software” application “programs” hosted on general purpose computers located at 
Air Traffic Control centres, and capable of automatically handing over primary radar target data (if not 
correlated with secondary surveillance radar (SSR) data) from the host ATC centre to another ATC centre;
b. “Software” specially designed for seismic intrusion detection systems in X.A.IV.009.c; or
c. “Source code” specially designed for seismic intrusion detection systems in X.A.IV.009.c.
X.E.IV.001 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.IV.001, X.A.IV.006, 
X.A.IV.007, X.A.IV.008 or X.A.IV.009.c.
X.E.IV.002 “Technology” for the “development” or “production” of equipment, materials or “software” controlled by X.A. 
IV.002, X.A.IV.004, or X.A.IV.005, X.B.IV.001, X.C.IV.001, X.C.IV.002, or X.D.IV.003.
X.E.IV.003 Other “technology” as follows:
a. Optical fabrication technologies for serially producing optical components at a rate exceeding 10 m2 of 
surface area per year on any single spindle and having all of the following:
1. Area exceeding 1 m2; and
2. Surface figure exceeding λ/10 (rms) at the designed wavelength;
b. “Technology” for optical filters with a bandwidth equal to or less than 10 nm, a field of view (FOV) 
exceeding 40o and a resolution exceeding 0,75 line pairs per milliradian;
c. “Technology” for the “development” or “production” of cameras controlled by X.A.IV.003;
d. “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of non-triaxial fluxgate “magnetometers” or 
non-triaxial fluxgate “magnetometer” systems, having any of the following:
1. “Sensitivity” lower (better) than 0,05 nT (rms) per square root Hz at frequencies of less than 1 Hz; or
2. “Sensitivity” lower (better) than 1 x 10-3 nT (rms) per square root Hz at frequencies of 1 Hz or more.
e. “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of infrared up-conversion devices having all 
of the following:
1. A response in the wavelength range exceeding 700 nm but not exceeding 1 500 nm; and
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
41/110
(21)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
2. A combination of an infrared photodetector, light emitting diode (OLED), and nanocrystal to convert 
infrared light into visible light.
Technical Note: For the purposes of X.E.IV.003, “sensitivity” (or noise level) is the root mean square of the device-limited 
noise floor which is the lowest signal that can be measured.
Category V – Navigation and Avionics
X.A.V.001 Airborne communication equipment, all “aircraft” inertial navigation systems, and other avionic equipment, 
including components, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
Note 1: X.A.V.001. does not control headsets or microphones.
Note 2: X.A.V.001. does not control goods for the personal use of the natural persons.
X.B.V.001 Other equipment specially designed for the test, inspection, or “production” of navigation and avionics 
equipment.
X.D.V.001 “Software”, other than specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, for the “development”, 
“production”, or “use” of navigation, airborne communication and other avionics.
X.E.V.001 “Technology”, other than specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, for the “development”, 
“production” or “use” of navigation, airborne communication, and other avionics equipment.
Category VI – Marine
X.A.VI.001 Vessels, marine systems or equipment, and specially designed components therefor, components and 
accessories as follows:
a. Underwater vision systems, as follows:
1. Television systems (comprising camera, lights, monitoring and signal transmission equipment) having 
a limiting resolution when measured in air of more than 500 lines and specially designed or modified for 
remote operation with a submersible vehicle; or
2. Underwater television cameras having a limiting resolution when measured in air of more than 700 lines;
Technical Note: Limiting resolution in television is a measure of horizontal resolution usually expressed in terms of the 
maximum number of lines per picture height discriminated on a test chart, using IEEE Standard 208/1960 or any 
equivalent standard.
b. Photographic still cameras specially designed or modified for underwater use, having a film format of 
35 mm or larger, and having autofocusing or remote focusing specially designed for underwater use;
c. Stroboscopic light systems, specially designed or modified for underwater use, capable of a light output 
energy of more than 300 J per flash;
d. Other underwater camera equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 
2021/821;
e. Marine boilers designed to have any of the following characteristics:
1. Heat release rate (at maximum rating) equal to or in excess of 1 966,4 kW/m3 of furnace volume; or
2. Ratio of steam generated in kilogram per hour (at maximum rating) to the dry weight of the boiler in 
kilograms equal to or in excess of 37,6;
f. Vessels (surface or underwater), including inflatable boats, and specially designed components therefor, 
other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
42/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
Note: X.A.VI.001.f does not control vessels on temporary sojourn, used for private transport or for the transport of 
passengers or goods from or through the customs territory of the Union.
g. Marine engines (both inboard and outboard) and submarine engines and specially designed components 
therefor, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
h. Self-contained underwater breathing apparatus (scuba gear) and accessories therefor, other than those 
specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
i. Life jackets, inflation cartridges, dive compasses and dive computers;
Note: X.A.VI.001.i does not control goods for the personal use of the natural persons.
j. Underwater lights and propulsion equipment; or
Note: X.A.VI.001.j does not control goods for the personal use of the natural persons.
k. Air compressors and filtration system specially designed for filling air cylinders.
X.D.VI.001 “Software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled 
by X.A.VI.001.
X.D.VI.002 “Software” specially designed for the operation of unmanned submersible vehicles used in the oil and gas 
industry.
X.E.VI.001 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.VI.001.
Category VII – Aerospace and Propulsion
X.A.VII.001 Diesel engines, and tractors and specially designed components therefor, other than those specified in the CML 
or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821:
a. Diesel engines, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, for trucks, tractors, 
and automotive applications, having an overall power output of 298 kW or more.
b. Off highway wheel tractors of carriage capacity 9 tonnes or more; and major components and accessories, 
other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
c. Road tractors for semi-trailers, with single or tandem rear axles rated for 9 tonnes per axel or more and 
specially designed major components.
Note: X.A.VII.001.b and X.A.VII.001.c do not control vehicles on temporary sojourn, used for private transport or 
for the transport of passengers or goods from or through the customs territory of the Union.
Technical Notes:
1. For the purpose of X.A.VII.001, a “major component” includes any assembled element which forms a portion of an 
“end item” without which the “end item” is inoperable.
2. For the purpose of X.A.VII.001, an “end item” is a system, equipment or assembled commodity ready for its intended 
use.
X.A.VII.002 Gas turbine engines and components, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
a. Not used.
b. Not used.
c. Aero gas turbine engines and components specially designed therefor.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
43/110
d. Not used.
e. Pressurised aircraft breathing equipment components specially designed therefor, other than those specified 
in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
X.A.VII.003 Aircraft engines, other than those specified in X.A.VII.002, the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as 
follows:
a. Reciprocating or rotary internal combustion piston engines; or
b. Electric engines.
Technical Note: For the purpose of X.A.VII.003 aircrafts includes: aeroplanes, UAVs, helicopters, autogyros, hybrid 
aircrafts or radio-controlled models.
X.B.VII.001 Vibration test equipment and specially designed components, other than those specified in the CML or in 
Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
Note: X.B.VII.001. controls only equipment for the “development” or “production”. It does not control condition 
monitoring systems.
X.B.VII.002 Specially designed equipment, tooling or fixtures for manufacturing or measuring gas turbine blades, vanes or 
tip shroud castings, as follows:
a. Automated equipment using non-mechanical methods for measuring airfoil wall thickness;
b. Tooling, fixtures or measuring equipment for the “laser”, water jet or ECM/EDM hole drilling processes 
controlled by 9E003.c (22);
c. Ceramic core leaching equipment;
d. Ceramic core manufacturing equipment or tools;
e. Ceramic shell wax pattern preparation equipment;
f. Ceramic shell burn out or firing equipment.
X.D.VII.001 “Software”, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, for the “development” or 
“production” of equipment controlled by X.A.VII.001 or X.B.VII.001.
X.D.VII.002 “Software”, for the “development” or “production” of equipment controlled by X.A.VII.002 or X.B.VII.002.
X.E.VII.001 “Technology”, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, for the “development” 
or “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.VII.001 or X.B.VII.001.
X.E.VII.002 “Technology”, for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.VII.002 or X.B. 
VII.002.
X.E.VII.003 Other “technology”, not described by 9E003 (23), as follows:
a. Rotor blade tip clearance control systems employing active compensating casing “technology” limited to 
a design and development data base; or
b. Gas bearing for turbine engine rotor assemblies.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
44/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(22)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
(23)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
Category VIII – Miscellaneous items
X.A.VIII.001 Equipment for oil production or oil exploration as follows:
a. Drill head integrated measurement equipment, including inertial navigation systems for measurement 
while drilling (MWD);
b. Gas monitoring systems and detectors therefor, designed for continuous operation and detection of 
hydrogen sulphide;
c. Equipment for seismological measurements, including reflection seismetics and seismic vibrators;
d. Sediment echo sounders.
X.A.VIII.002 Equipment, “electronic assemblies” and components, specially designed for quantum computers, quantum 
electronics, quantum sensors, quantum processing units, qubit circuits, qubit devices or quantum radar 
systems, including pockels cells.
Note 1: Quantum computers perform computations that harness the collective properties of quantum states, such as 
superposition, interference and entanglement.
Note 2: Units, circuits and devices include but are not limited to superconducting circuits, Quantum annealing, Ion Trap, 
photonic interaction, silicon/spin, cold atoms.
X.A.VIII.003 Microscopes, related equipment and detectors as follows:
a. Scanning electron microscopes (SEM);
b. Scanning auger microscopes;
c. Transmission electron microscopes (TEM);
d. Atomic force microscopes (AFM);
e. Scanning force microscopes (SFM);
f. Equipment and detectors, specially designed for use with the microscopes specified in X.A.VIII.003.a to X. 
A.VIII.0003.e, employing any of the following material analysis techniques:
1. X-ray photo spectroscopy (XPS);
2. Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX, EDS); or
3. Electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis (ESCA).
X.A.VIII.004 Collector equipment for metal ores in deep seabed.
X.A.VIII.005 Manufacturing equipment and machine tools as follows:
a. Additive manufacturing equipment for the “production” of metal parts;
Note: X.A.VIII.005.a only applies to the following systems:
1. Powder-bed systems using selective laser melting (SLM), laser cusing, direct metal laser sintering (DMLS) 
or electron beam melting (EBM); or
2. Powder-fed systems using laser cladding, direct energy deposition or laser metal deposition.
b. Additive manufacturing equipment for “energetic materials”, including equipment using ultrasonic 
extrusion;
c. Vat photopolymerization (VVP) additive manufacturing equipment using stereo lithography (SLA) or 
digital light processing (DLP).
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
45/110
X.A.VIII.006 Equipment for the “production” of printed electronics for organic light emitting diodes (OLED), organic 
field-effect transistors (OFET) or organic photovoltaic cells (OPVC).
X.A.VIII.007 Equipment for the “production” of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) using the mechanical properties 
of silicon, including sensors in chip format like pressure membranes, bending beams or micro adjustment 
devices.
X.A.VIII.008 Equipment, specially designed for the production of E-Fuels (electrofuels and synthetic fuels) or ultra efficient 
solar cells (efficiency > 30 %).
X.A.VIII.009 Equipment for Ultra-High-Vacuum (UHV) as follows:
a. UHV pumps (sublimation, turbomolecular, diffusion, cryogenic, ion getter);
b. UHV pressure gauges.
Note: UHV means 100 nanoPascals (nPa) or lower.
X.A.VIII.010 “Cryogenic refrigeration systems” designed to maintain temperatures below 1,1 K for 48 hrs or more and 
related cryogenic refrigeration equipment as follows:
a. Pulse Tubes;
b. Cryostats;
c. Dewars;
d. Gas Handling System (GHS);
e. Compressors; or
f. Control Units.
Note: “Cryogenic refrigeration systems” include but are not limited to Dilution Refrigeration, Adiabatic Demagnisation 
Refrigerators and Laser Cooling Systems.
X.A.VIII.011 “Decapsulation” equipment for semiconductor devices.
Note: “Decapsulation” is the removal of a cap, lid, or encapsulating material from a packaged integrated circuit by 
mechanical, thermal, or chemical means.
X.A.VIII.012 High Quantum Efficiency (QE) photodetectors with a QE greater than 80 % in the wavelength range exceeding 
400 nm but not exceeding 1 600 nm.
X.AVIII.013 Numerical controlled machine tools, having one or more linear axis with a travel length greater than 
8 000 mm.
X.A.VIII.014 Water cannon systems for riot or crowd control, and components specially designed therefor.
Note: X.A.VIII.014 water cannon systems include, for example: vehicles or fixed stations equipped with remotely 
operated water cannon that are designed to protect the operator from an outside riot with features such as armor, shatter 
resistant windows, metal screens, bull-bars, or run-flat tires. Components specially designed for water cannons may 
include, for example: deck gun water nozzles, pumps, reservoirs, cameras, and lights that are hardened or shielded against 
projectiles, elevating masts for those items, and teleoperation systems for those items.
X.A.VIII.015 Law enforcement striking weapons, including saps, police batons, side handle batons, tonfas, sjamboks, and 
whips.
X.A.VIII.016 Police helmets and shields; and specially designed components, other than those specified in the CML or in 
Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
46/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
X.A.VIII.017 Law enforcement restraint devices, including leg irons, shackles, and handcuffs; straight jackets; stun cuffs; 
shock belts; shock sleeves; multipoint restraint devices such as restraint chairs; and specially designed 
components and accessories, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
Note: X.A.VIII.017 applies to restraint devices used in law enforcement activities. It does not apply to medical devices 
that are equipped to restrain patient movement during medical procedures. It does not apply to devices that confine 
memory impaired patients to appropriate medical facilities. It does not apply to safety equipment such as safety belts or 
child automobile safety seats.
X.A.VIII.018 Oil and gas exploration equipment, “software”, and data, as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Not used.
b. Hydraulic fracturing items, as follows:
1. Hydraulic fracturing design and analysis “software” and data;
2. Hydraulic fracturing “proppant”, “fracking fluid”, and chemical additives therefor; or
3. High pressure pumps.
Technical Note:
A “proppant” is a solid material, typically treated sand or man-made ceramic materials, designed to keep an induced 
hydraulic fracture open, during or following a fracturing treatment. It is added to a “fracking fluid” which may vary in 
composition depending on the type of fracturing used, and can be gel, foam or slickwater-based.
X.A.VIII.019 Specific processing equipment, as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Ring magnets;
b. Not used.
X.A.VIII.020 Weapons and devices designed for the purpose of riot control or self-protection, as follows:
a. Portable electric discharge weapons that can target only one individual each time an electric shock is 
administered, including but not limited to electric shock batons, electric shock shields, stun guns and 
electric shock dart guns;
b. Kits containing all essential components for assembly of portable electric discharge weapons controlled by 
item X.A.VIII.020.a; or
Note: The following goods are considered to be essential components:
1. The unit producing an electric shock;
2. The switch, whether or not on a remote control; and
3. The electrodes or, where applicable, the wires through which the electrical shock is to be administered.
c. Fixed or mountable electric discharge weapons that cover a wide area and can target multiple individuals 
with electrical shocks.
X.A.VIII.021 Weapons and equipment disseminating incapacitating or irritating chemical substances for the purpose of 
riot control or self-protection and certain related substances, as follows:
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
47/110
a. Portable weapons and equipment which either administer a dose of an incapacitating or irritating chemical 
substance that targets one individual or disseminate a dose of such substance affecting a small area, e.g. in 
the form of a spray fog or cloud, when the chemical substance is administered or disseminated;
Note 1: This item does not control equipment controlled by item ML7(e) of the CML of the European Union.
Note 2: This item does not control individual portable equipment, even if containing a chemical substance, when 
accompanying their user for the user’s own personal protection.
Note 3: In addition to relevant chemical substances, such as riot control agents or PAVA, the goods controlled by 
items X.A.VIII.021.c and X.A.VIII.021.d shall be deemed to be incapacitating or irritating chemical substances.
b. Pelargonic acid vanillylamide (PAVA) (CAS 2444-46-4);
c. Oleoresin capsicum (OC) (CAS 8023-77-6);
d. Mixtures containing at least 0,3 % by weight of PAVA or OC and a solvent (such as ethanol, 1-propanol or 
hexane), which could be administered as such as incapacitating or irritating agents, in particular in aerosols 
and in liquid form, or used for manufacturing of incapacitating or irritating agents;
Note 1: This item does not control sauces and preparations therefor, soups or preparations therefor and mixed 
condiments or seasonings, provided that PAVA or OC is not the only constituent flavour in them.
Note 2: This item does not control medicinal products for which a marketing authorisation has been granted in 
accordance with Union law.
e. Fixed equipment for the dissemination of incapacitating or irritating chemical substances, which can be 
attached to a wall or to a ceiling inside a building, comprises a canister of irritating or incapacitating 
chemical agents and is activated using a remote control system;
Note: In addition to relevant chemical substances, such as riot control agents or PAVA, the goods controlled by items 
X.A.VIII.021.c and X.A.VIII.021.d shall be deemed to be incapacitating or irritating chemical substances.
f. Fixed or mountable equipment for the dissemination of incapacitating or irritating chemical agents that 
covers a wide area and is not designed to be attached to a wall or to a ceiling inside a building;
Note 1: This item does not control equipment controlled by item ML7(e) of the CML of the European Union.
Note 2: In addition to relevant chemical substances, such as riot control agents or PAVA, the goods controlled by 
items X.A.VIII.021.c and X.A.VIII.021.d shall be deemed to be incapacitating or irritating chemical substances.
g. Other irritating chemical substances, and mixtures thereof containing at least 0,3 % by weight of the active 
substance, as follows:
1.
Dibenzo[b,f][1,4]oxazepine (CR) (CAS 257-07-8);
2.
8-Methyl-N-vanillyl-trans-6-nonenamide (capsaicin) (CAS 404-86-4);
3.
8-Methyl-N-vanillylnonamide (dihydrocapsaicin) (CAS 19408-84-5);
4.
N-Vanillyl-9-methyldec-7-(E)-enamide (homocapsaicin) (CAS 58493-48-4);
5.
N-Vanillyl-9-methyldecanamide (homodihydrocapsaicin) (CAS 20279-06-5);
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
48/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
6.
N-Vanillyl-7-methyloctanamide (nordihydrocapsaicin) (CAS 28789-35-7);
7.
4-Nonanolylmorpholine (MPA) (CAS 5299-64-9);
8.
Cis-4-acetylaminodicyclohexylmethane (CAS 37794-87-9);
9.
N,N′-Bis(isopropyl)ethylenediimine; or
10. N,N′-Bis(tert-butyl)ethylenediimine.
h. Chemical precursors to Riot Control Agents (RCAs) or irritating substances, as follows:
1. Malononitril (CAS 109-77-3);
2. 2-Chlorobenzaldehyde (CAS 89-98-5);
3. 2-Chlorobenzyl alcohol (CAS 17849-38-6);
4. 2-Chlorobenzylamine (CAS 89-97-4);
5. 1-Chloro-2-(dimethoxymethyl)-benzene (CAS 70380-66-4);
6. Acetophenone (CAS 98-86-2);
7. Chloroacetyl chloride (CAS 79-04-9); or
8. 2-Aminophenol (CAS 95-55-6).
X.A.VIII.022 Products which could be used for the execution of human beings by means of lethal injection, as follows:
a. Short and intermediate acting barbiturate anaesthetic agents including, but not limited to:
1. Amobarbital (CAS 57-43-2);
2. Amobarbital sodium salt (CAS 64-43-7);
3. Pentobarbital (CAS 76-74-4);
4. Pentobarbital sodium salt (CAS 57-33-0);
5. Secobarbital (CAS 76-73-3);
6. Secobarbital sodium salt (CAS 309-43-3);
7. Thiopental (CAS 76-75-5); or
8. Thiopental sodium salt (CAS 71-73-8), also known as thiopentone sodium;
b. Products containing one of the anaesthetic agents listed under X.A.VIII.022.a.
X.A.VIII.023 Nettings, canopies, tents, blankets and apparel, specially designed for camouflage.
X.A.VIII.024 “All-terrain vehicles”.
Technical Note:
“All-terrain vehicles” means any motorised vehicle designed to travel on three or four low pressure (less than 0,9 bar gauge 
pressure) tires on unpaved surfaces, typically having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for 
steering control. “All-terrain vehicles” may include, for example, quad bikes, off-road vehicles, utility terrain vehicles.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
49/110
X.B.VIII.001 Specific processing equipment, as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Hot cells; or
b. Glove boxes suitable for use with radioactive materials.
X.C.VIII.001 Metal powders and metal alloy powders, usable for any of the systems listed in X.A.VIII.005.a.
X.C.VIII.002 Advanced materials as follows:
a. Materials for cloaking or adaptive camouflage;
b. Metamaterials, e.g. with a negative refractive index;
c. Not used;
d. High entropy alloys (HEA);
e. Heusler compounds; or
f. Kitaev materials, including kitaev spin liquids.
X.C.VIII.003 Conjugated polymers (conductive, semiconductive, electroluminescent) for printed or organic electronics.
X.C.VIII.004 Energetic materials as follows and mixtures thereof:
a.
Ammonium picrate (CAS 131-74-8);
b.
Black powder;
c.
Hexanitrodiphenylamine (CAS 131-73-7);
d.
Difluoroamine (CAS 10405-27-3);
e.
Nitrostarch (CAS9056-38-6);
f.
Not used;
g.
Tetranitronaphthalene;
h.
Trinitroanisole;
i.
Trinitronaphthalene;
j.
Trinitroxylene;
k.
N-pyrrolidinone; 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone (CAS 872-50-4);
l.
Dioctylmaleate (CAS 142-16-5);
m. Ethylhexylacrylate (CAS 103-11-7);
n.
Triethylaluminium (TEA) (CAS 97-93-8), trimethylaluminium (TMA) (CAS 75-24-1), and other 
pyrophoric metal alkyls and aryls of lithium, sodium, magnesium, zinc or boron;
o.
Nitrocellulose (CAS 9004-70-0);
p.
Nitroglycerin (or glyceroltrinitrate, trinitroglycerine) (NG) (CAS 55-63-0);
q.
2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) (CAS 118-96-7);
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
50/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
r.
Ethylenediaminedinitrate (EDDN) (CAS 20829-66-7);
s.
Pentaerythritoltetranitrate (PETN) (CAS 78-11-5);
t.
Lead azide (CAS 13424-46-9), normal lead styphnate(CAS 15245-44-0) and basic lead styphnate (CAS 
12403-82-6), and primary explosives or priming compositions containing azides or azide complexes;
u.
Not used;
v.
Not used;
w. Diethyldiphenylurea (CAS 85-98-3); dimethyldiphenylurea (CAS 611-92-7); methylethyldiphenyl urea.
x.
N,N-diphenylurea (unsymmetrical diphenylurea) (CAS 603-54-3);
y.
Methyl-N,N-diphenylurea (methyl unsymmetrical diphenylurea) (CAS 13114-72-2);
z.
Ethyl-N,N-diphenylurea (ethyl unsymmetrical diphenylurea) (CAS 64544-71-4);
aa. Not used;
bb. 4-Nitrodiphenylamine (4-NDPA)(CAS 836-30-6);
cc. 2,2-dinitropropanol (CAS 918-52-5); or
dd. Not used.
X.D.VIII.001 “Software”, specially designed for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment specified in X.A. 
VIII.005 to X.A.VIII.0013.
X.D.VIII.002 “Software”, specially designed for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment, “electronic 
assemblies” or components specified in X.A.VIII.002.
X.D.VIII.003 “Software” for digital twins of additive manufacturing products or for the determination of the reliability of 
additive manufacturing products.
X.D.VIII.004 “Software” specially designed for the “development,” “production” or “use” of commodities controlled by X.A. 
VIII.014.
X.D.VIII.005 Specific “software”, as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. “Software” for neutronic calculations/modeling;
b. “Software” for radiation transport calculations/modeling; or
c. “Software” for hydrodynamic calculations/modeling.
X.E.VIII.001 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment specified in X.A.VIII.001 to X.A. 
VIII.0013.
X.E.VIII.002 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of materials specified in X.C.VIII.002 or X.C. 
VIII.003
X.E.VIII.003 “Technology” for digital twins of additive manufacturing products, for the determination of the reliability of 
additive manufacturing products or for “software” specified in X.D.VIII.003.
X.E.VIII.004 “Technology” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of “software” specified in X.D.VIII.001 to X.D. 
VIII.002.
X.E.VIII.005 “Technology” “required” for the “development” or “production” of commodities controlled by X.A.VIII.014.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
51/110
X.E.VIII.006 “Technology” exclusively for the “development” or “production” of equipment controlled by X.A.VIII.017.
Category IX – Special Materials and Related Equipment
X.A.IX.001 Chemical agents, including tear gas formulation containing 1 % or less of orthochlorobenzalmalononitrile (CS), 
or 1 % or less of chloroacetophenone (CN), except in individual containers with a net weight of 20 g or less; 
liquid pepper except when packaged in individual containers with a net weight of 85,05 g or less; smoke 
bombs; non-irritant smoke flares, canisters, grenades and charges; and other pyrotechnic articles having dual 
military and commercial use, and components specially designed therefor, other than those specified in the 
CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
X.A.IX.002 Fingerprinting powders, dyes, and inks.
X.A.IX.003 Protective and detection equipment not specially designed for military use and not controlled by 1A004 or 
2B351 (24), as follows (see List of Items Controlled), and components not specially designed for military use and 
not controlled by 1A004 or 2B351 therefor:
a. Personal radiation monitoring dosimeters; or
b. Equipment limited by design or function to protect against hazards specific to civil industries, such as 
mining, quarrying, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, medical, veterinary, environmental, waste management, or 
to the food industry.
Note: X.A.IX.003 does not control items for protection against chemical or biological agents that are consumer goods, 
packaged for retail sale or personal use, or medical products, such as latex exam gloves, latex surgical gloves, liquid 
disinfectant soap, disposable surgical drapes, surgical gowns, surgical foot covers, and surgical masks.
X.A.IX.004 Specific processing equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as 
follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Radiation detection, monitoring and measurement equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in 
Regulation (EU) 2021/821; or
b. Radiographic detection equipment such as X-ray converters, and storage phosphor image plates.
X.B.IX.001 Specific processing equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as 
follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Electrolytic cells for fluorine production, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 
2021/821;
b. Particle accelerators;
c. Industrial process control hardware/systems designed for power industries, other than those specified in the 
CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
d. Freon and chilled water cooling systems capable of continuous cooling duties of 29,3 kW/hr or greater; or
e. Equipment for the production of structural composites, fibres, prepregs and preforms.
X.C.IX.001 Separate chemically defined compounds according to Note 1 to Chapters 28 and 29 of the Combined 
Nomenclature:
a. In concentrations of 95 % weight or greater, as follows:
1.
Ethylene dichloride (CAS 107-06-2);
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
52/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(24)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
2.
Nitromethane (CAS 75-52-5);
3.
Picric acid (CAS 88-89-1);
4.
Aluminium chloride (CAS 7446-70-0);
5.
Arsenic (CAS 7440-38-2);
6.
Arsenic trioxide (CAS 1327-53-3);
7.
Bis(2-chloroethyl)ethylamine hydrochloride (CAS 3590-07-6);
8.
Bis(2-chloroethyl)methylamine hydrochloride (CAS 55-86-7);
9.
Tris(2-chloroethyl)amine hydrochloride (CAS 817-09-4);
10. Tributylphosphite (CAS 102-85-2);
11. Isocyanatomethane (CAS 624-83-9);
12. Quinaldine (CAS 91-63-4);
13. 2-bromochloroethane (CAS 107-04-0);
14. Benzil (CAS 134-81-6);
15. Diethyl ether (CAS 60-29-7);
16. Dimethyl ether (CAS 115-10-6);
17. Dimethylaminoethanol (CAS 108-01-0);
18. 2-methoxyethanol (CAS 109-86-4);
19. Butyrylcholinesterase (BCHE);
20. Diethylenetriamine (CAS 111-40-0);
21. Dichloromethane (CAS 75-09-2);
22. Dimethylaniline (CAS 121-69-7);
23. Ethyl bromide (CAS 74-96-4);
24. Ethyl chloride (CAS 75-00-3);
25. Ethylamine (CAS 75-04-7);
26. Hexamine (CAS 100-97-0);
27. Isopropanol (CAS 67- 63-0);
28. Isopropyl bromide (CAS 75-26-3);
29. Isopropyl ether (CAS 108-20-3);
30. Methylamine (CAS 74-89-5);
31. Methyl bromide (CAS 74-83-9);
32. Monoisopropylamine (CAS 75-31-0);
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
53/110
33. Obidoxime chloride (CAS 114-90-9);
34. Potassium bromide (CAS 7758-02-3);
35. Pyridine (CAS 110-86-1);
36. Pyridostigmine bromide (CAS 101-26-8);
37. Sodium bromide (CAS 7647-15-6);
38. Sodium metal (CAS 7440-23-5);
39. Tributylamine (CAS 102-82-9);
40. Triethylamine (CAS 121-44-8); or
41. Trimethylamine (CAS 75-50-3).
b. In concentrations of 90 % weight or greater, as follows:
1.
Acetone (CAS 67-64-1);
2.
Acetylene (CAS 74-86-2);
3.
Ammonia (CAS 7664-41-7);
4.
Antimony (CAS 7440-36-0);
5.
Benzaldehyde (CAS 100-52-7);
6.
Benzoin (CAS 119-53-9);
7.
1-Butanol (CAS 71-36-3);
8.
2-Butanol (CAS 78-92-2);
9.
Iso-Butanol (CAS 78-83-1);
10. Tert-Butanol (CAS 75-65-0);
11. Calcium carbide (CAS 75-20-7);
12. Carbon monoxide (CAS 630-08-0);
13. Chlorine (CAS 7782-50-5);
14. Cyclohexanol (CAS 108-93-0);
15. Dicyclohexylamine (CAS 101-83-7);
16. Ethanol (CAS 64-17-5);
17. Ethylene (CAS 74-85-1);
18. Ethylene oxide (CAS 75-21-8);
19. Fluoroapatite (CAS 1306-05-4);
20. Hydrogen chloride (CAS 7647-01-0);
21. Hydrogen sulfide (CAS 7783-06-4);
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
54/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
22. Mandelic acid (CAS 90-64-2);
23. Methanol (CAS 67-56-1);
24. Methyl chloride (CAS 74-87-3);
25. Methyl iodide (CAS 74-88-4);
26. Methyl mercaptan (CAS 74-93-1);
27. Monoethyleneglycol (CAS 107-21-1);
28. Oxalyl chloride (CAS 79-37-8);
29. Potassium sulphide (CAS 1312-73-8);
30. Potassium thiocyanate (CAS 333-20-0);
31. Sodium hypochlorite (CAS 7681-52-9);
32. Sulphur (CAS 7704-34-9);
33. Sulphur dioxide (CAS 7446-09-5);
34. Sulphur trioxide (CAS 7446-11-9);
35. Thiophosphoryl chloride (CAS 3982-91-0);
36. Tri-isobutyl phosphite (CAS 1606-96-8);
37. White phosphorus (CAS 12185-10-3);
38. Yellow phosphorus (CAS 7723-14-0);
39. Mercury (CAS 7439-97-6);
40. Barium chloride (CAS 10361-37-2);
41. Sulphuric acid (CAS 7664-93-9);
42. 3,3-dimethyl-1-butene (CAS 558-37-2);
43. 2,2-dimethylpropanal (CAS 630-19-3);
44. 2,2-dimethylpropylchloride (CAS 753-89-9);
45. 2-methylbutene (CAS 26760-64-5);
46. 2-chloro-3-methylbutane (CAS 631-65-2);
47. 2,3-dimethyl-2,3-butanediol (CAS 76-09-5);
48. 2-methyl-2-butene (CAS 513-35-9);
49. Butyl lithium (CAS 109-72-8);
50. Bromo(methyl)magnesium (CAS 75-16-1);
51. Formaldehyde (CAS 50-00-0);
52. Diethanolamine (CAS 111-42-2);
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
55/110
53. Dimethylcarbonate (CAS 616-38-6);
54. Methyldiethanolamine hydrochloride (CAS 54060-15-0);
55. Diethylamine hydrochloride (CAS 660-68-4);
56. Diisopropylamine hydrochloride (CAS 819-79-4);
57. 3-Quinuclidinone hydrochloride (CAS 1193-65-3);
58. 3-Quinuclidinol hydrochloride (CAS 6238-13-7);
59. (R)-3- Quinuclidinol hydrochloride (CAS 42437-96-7);
60. N,N-Diethylaminoethanol hydrochloride (CAS 14426-20-1);
61. Dialkyl(≤C10) chlorophosphates;
62. Dialkyl(≤C10) fluorophosphates;
63. N,N-Methylisopropylacetamidine (CAS 1339185-57-7);
64. N,N-Methylethylacetamidine (CAS 1339632-40-4);
65. N,N-Ethylisopropylacetamidine(CAS 1339156-10-3);
66. N,N-Methylpropylacetamidine(CAS 1344238-28-3);
67. N,N-Ethylpropylacetamidine(CAS 1339737-43-7);
68. N,N-Isopropylpropylacetamidine(CAS 1341389-98-7);
69. N,N-Methylethylpropanamidine (CAS 1339424-26-8);
70. N,N-Ethylisopropylpropanamidine (CAS 1344354-09-1);
71. N,N-Methylpropylpropanamidine (CAS 1340216-25-2);
72. N,N-Ethylpropylpropanamidine (CAS 1341493-60-4);
73. N,N-Isopropylpropylpropanamidine (CAS 1343225-93-3);
74. N,N-Methylisopropylpropanamidine (CAS 1339042-55-5);
75. N,N-Methylethylbutanamidine (CAS 1341049-51-1);
76. N,N-Methylpropylbutanamidine (CAS 1343721-02-7);
77. N,N-Ethylpropylbutanamidine (CAS 1343806-12-1);
78. N,N-Isopropylpropylbutanamidine (CAS 1343316-02-8);
79. N,N-Methylisopropylbutanamidine (CAS 1340219-94-4);
80. N,N-Ethylisopropylbutanamidine (CAS 1342204-10-7);
81. N,N-Methylethylisobutanamidine (CAS 1342365-47-2);
82. N,N-Ethylpropylisobutanamidine (CAS 1342566-58-8);
83. N,N-Methylpropylisobutanamidine (CAS 1342270-21-6);
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
56/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
84. N,N-Isopropylpropylisobutanamidine (CAS 1342156-11-9);
85. N,N-Methylisopropylisobutanamidine (CAS 1341992-96-8);
86. N,N-Ethylisopropylisobutanamidine (CAS 1339048-76-8);
87. N,N-Dimethylacetamidine hydrobromide (CAS 1801188-12-4);
88. N,N-Dimethylacetamidine hydrochloride (CAS 2909-15-1);
89. N,N-Diethylacetamidine hydrochloride (CAS 91400-32-7);
90. N,N-Diethylacetamidine hydrobromide (CAS 78053-54-0);
91. N,N-Dimethylpropanamidine dihydrochloride (CAS 79972-73-9); or
92. N,N-Dimethylpropanamidine hydrochloride (CAS 56776-15-9); or
93. Chloroform (CAS 67-66-3).
X.C.IX.002 Fentanyl and its derivatives Alfentanil, Sufentanil, Remifentanil, Carfentanil, and salts thereof.
Note: X.C.IX.002 does not control products identified as consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use or 
packaged for individual use.
X.C.IX.003 Chemical precursors to Central Nervous System Acting Chemicals, as follows:
a. 4-anilino-N-phenethylpiperidine (CAS 21409-26-7); or
b. N-phenethyl-4-piperidone (CAS 39742-60-4).
Notes:
1. X.C.IX.003 does not control “chemical mixtures” containing one or more of the chemicals specified in entry X.C. 
IX.003 in which no individually specified chemical constitutes more than 1 % by the weight of the mixture.
2. X.C.IX.003 does not control products identified as consumer goods packaged for retail sale for personal use or 
packaged for individual use.
X.C.IX.004 Fibrous and filamentary materials, not controlled by 1C010 or 1C210 (25), for use in “composite” structures 
and with a specific modulus of 3,18 x 106 m or greater and a specific tensile strength of 7,62 x 104 m or 
greater.
X.C.IX.005 “Vaccines”, “immunotoxins”, “medical products”, “diagnostic and food testing kits”, as follows (see List of Items 
controlled):
a. “Vaccines” containing, or designed for use against, items controlled by 1C351, 1C353 or 1C354;
b. “Immunotoxins” containing items controlled by 1C351.d; or
c. “Medical products” that contain any of the following:
1. “Toxins” controlled by 1C351.d (except for botulinum toxins controlled by 1C351.d.1, conotoxins 
controlled by 1C351.d.3, or items controlled for CW reasons under 1C351.d.4 or .d.5); or
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
57/110
(25)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
2. Genetically modified organisms or genetic elements controlled by 1C353.a.3 (except for those that 
contain, or code for, botulinum toxins controlled by 1C351.d.1 or conotoxins controlled by 1C351.d.3);
d. “Medical products” not controlled by X.C.IX.005.c that contain any of the following:
1. Botulinum toxins controlled by 1C351.d.1;
2. Conotoxins controlled by 1C351.d.3; or
3. Genetically modified organisms or genetic elements controlled by 1C353.a.3 that contain, or code for, 
botulinum toxins controlled by 1C351.d.1 or conotoxins controlled by 1C351.d.3; or
e. “Diagnostic and food testing kits” containing items controlled by 1C351.d (except for items controlled for 
CW reasons under 1C351.d.4 or .d.5).
Technical Notes:
1. “Medical products” are: (1) pharmaceutical formulations designed for testing and human (or veterinary) administration 
in the treatment of medical conditions, (2) prepackaged for distribution as clinical or medical products, and (3) 
approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) either to be marketed as clinical or medical products or for use as 
research new drug.
2. “Diagnostic and food testing kits” are specifically developed, packaged and marketed for diagnostic or public health 
purposes. Biological toxins in any other configuration, including bulk shipments, or for any other end-uses are 
controlled by 1C351.
X.C.IX.006 Commercial charges and devices containing energetic materials, other than those specified in the CML or in 
Regulation (EU) 2021/821, and nitrogen trifluoride in a gaseous state (see List of Items Controlled):
a.
Shaped charges specially designed for oil well operations, utilizing one charge functioning along a single 
axis, that upon detonation produce a hole, and
1. Contain any formulation of “controlled materials”;
2. Have only a uniform shaped conical liner with an included angle of 90 degrees or less;
3. Contain more than 0,010 kg but less than or equal to 0,090 kg of “controlled materials”; and
4. Have a diameter not exceeding 114,3 cm;
b. Shaped charges specially designed for oil well operations containing less than or equal to 0,010 kg of 
“controlled materials”;
c.
Detonation cord or shock tubes containing less than or equal to 0,064 kg/m of “controlled materials”;
d. Cartridge power devices, that contain less than or equal to 0,70 kg of “controlled materials” in the 
deflagration material;
e.
Detonators (electric or nonelectric) and assemblies thereof, that contain less than or equal to 0,01 kg of 
“controlled materials”;
f.
Igniters, that contain less than or equal to 0,01 kg of “controlled materials”;
g. Oil well cartridges, that contain less than or equal to 0,015 kg of controlled “energetic materials”;
h. Commercial cast or pressed boosters containing less than or equal to 1,0 kg of “controlled materials”;
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
58/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
i.
Commercial prefabricated slurries and emulsions containing less than or equal to 10,0 kg and less than or 
equal to 35 % by weight of ML8 “controlled materials”;
j.
Cutters and severing tools containing less than or equal to 3,5 kg of “controlled materials”;
k. Pyrotechnic devices when designed exclusively for commercial purposes (e.g., theatrical stages, motion 
picture special effects, and fireworks displays) and containing less than or equal to 3,0 kg of “controlled 
materials”;
l.
Other commercial explosive devices and charges not controlled by X.C.IX.006.a through .k containing less 
than or equal to 1,0 kg of “controlled materials”; or
Note: X.C.IX.006.l includes automotive safety devices; extinguishing systems; cartridges for riveting guns; explosive 
charges for agricultural, oil and gas operations, sporting goods, commercial mining, or public works purposes; and 
delay tubes used in the assembly of commercial explosive devices.
m. Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) in a gaseous state.
Notes:
1. “Controlled materials” means controlled energetic materials (see 1C011, 1C111, 1C239 or ML8).
2. Nitrogen trifluoride when not in a gaseous state is controlled under ML8.d by the CML.
X.C.IX.007 Mixtures not controlled by 1C350 or 1C450 (26) that contain chemicals controlled by 1C350 or 1C450 and 
medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits not controlled by 1C350 or 1C450 that contain chemicals 
controlled by 1C350, as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Mixtures containing the following concentrations of precursor chemicals controlled by 1C350:
1. Mixtures containing 10 % or less, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical controlled by 
1C350;
2. Mixtures containing less than 30 %, by weight, of:
a. Any single CWC Schedule 3 chemical controlled by 1C350; or
b. Any single non-CWC precursor chemical controlled by 1C350;
b. Mixtures containing the following concentrations of toxic or precursor chemicals controlled by 1C450:
1. Mixtures containing the following concentrations of CWC Schedule 2 chemicals controlled by 1C450:
a. Mixtures containing 1 % or less, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical controlled by 
1C450.a.1 and a.2 (i.e., mixtures containing Amiton or PFIB); or
b. Mixtures containing 10 % or less, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 2 chemical controlled by 
1C450.b.1, b.2, b.3, b.4, b.5, or b.6;
2. Mixtures containing less than 30 %, by weight, of any single CWC Schedule 3 chemical controlled by 
1C450.a.4, a.5., a.6., a.7, or 1C450.b.8;
c. “Medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” that contain precursor chemicals controlled by 1C350 
in an amount not exceeding 300 grams per chemical.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
59/110
(26)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
Technical Note:
For the purpose of this entry, “medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits” are pre-packaged materials of defined 
composition that are specifically developed, packaged and marketed for medical, analytical, diagnostic, or public health 
purposes. Replacement reagents for medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits described in X.C.IX.007.c are 
controlled by 1C350 if the reagents contain at least one of the precursor chemicals identified in that entry in concentrations 
equal to or greater than the control levels for mixtures indicated in 1C350.
X.C.IX.008 Non-fluorinated polymeric substances, not controlled by 1C008 (27), as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Polyarylene ether ketones, as follows:
1. Polyether ether ketone (PEEK);
2. Polyether ketone ketone (PEKK);
3. Polyether ketone (PEK); or
4. Polyether ketone ether ketone ketone (PEKEKK);
b. Not used.
X.C.IX.009 Specific materials, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as follows (see List of 
Items Controlled):
a. Hardened steel and tungsten carbide precision ball bearings (3 mm or greater diameter);
b. 304 and 316 stainless steel plate, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
c. Monel plate;
d. Tributyl phosphate (CAS 126-73-8);
e. Nitric acid (CAS 7697-37-2) in concentrations of 20 % weight or greater;
f. Fluorine (CAS 7782-41-4); or
g. Alpha-emitting radionuclides, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
X.C.IX.010 Aromatic polyamides (aramids) not controlled by 1C010, 1C210 or X.C.IX.004, presented in any of the 
following forms (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Primary forms;
b. Filament yarn or monofilaments;
c. Filament tows;
d. Rovings;
e. Staple or chopped fibres;
f. Fabrics;
g. Pulp or flocks.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
60/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(27)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
X.C.IX.011 Nanomaterials as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Semiconductor nanomaterials;
b. Composite-based nanomaterials; or
c. Any of the following carbon-based nanomaterials:
1. Carbon nanotubes;
2. Carbon nanofibres;
3. Fullerenes;
4. Graphenes; or
5. Carbon onions.
Notes:For the purpose of X.C.IX.011, nanomaterial means a material that meets at least one of the following criteria:
1. Consists of particles, with one or more external dimensions in the size range 1 – 100 nm for more than 1 % of their 
number size distribution;
2. Has internal or surface structures in one or more dimensions in the size range 1 – 100 nm; or
3. Has a specific surface area by volume greater than 60 m2/cm3, excluding materials consisting of particles with a size 
lower than 1 nm.
X.C.IX.012 Rare-earth metals and compounds, either in organic or inorganic form, including mixtures whether or not 
intermixed or interalloyed.
Note 1: Rare-earth metals and compounds include Scandium, Yttrium, Lanthanum, Cerium, Praseodymium, Neodymium, 
Promethium, Samarium, Europium, Gadolinium, Terbium, Dysprosium, Holmium, Erbium, Thulium, Ytterbium and 
Lutetium;
Note 2: For the purpose of the control X.C.IX.012 minerals containing rare-earth metals are excluded;
Note 3: X.C.IX.012 does not control mixtures in which no individually metal or compound specified in this entry 
constitutes more than 5 % by the weight of the mixture.
X.C.IX.013 Tungsten, tungsten carbide and alloys, not controlled by 1C117 or 1C226 (28), containing more than 90 % 
tungsten by weight.
Note 1: For the purpose of the control X.C.IX.013, wire is excluded;
Note 2: For the purpose of the control X.C.IX.013, surgical or medical instruments are excluded.
X.C.IX.014 Lithium and lithium compounds, as follows:
a. Lithium (CAS 7439-93-2);
b. Lithium carbonate (CAS 554-13-2);
c. Lithium hydroxide (CAS 1310-65-2 and CAS 1310-66-3);
d. Lithium oxide (CAS 12057-24-8);
e. Lithium cobalt oxide (CAS 12190-79-3);
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
61/110
(28)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
f. Lithium iron phosphate (CAS 15365-14-7);
g. Lithium manganese oxide (CAS 12057-17-9);
h. Lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (CAS 346417-97-8); or
i. Lithium titanate (CAS 12031-82-2).
X.C.IX.015 Ultra-High-Molecular-Weight Polyethylene (UHMWPE), not controlled by 1C010 or 1C210 (29), presented in 
any of the following forms:
a. Primary forms;
b. Filament yarn or monofilaments;
c. Filament tows;
d. Rovings;
e. Staple or chopped fibres;
f. Fabrics;
g. Pulp or flocks.
X.D.IX.001 Specific “software”, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as follows (see List 
of Items Controlled):
a. “Software” specially designed for industrial process control hardware/systems controlled by X.B.IX.001, 
other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821; or
b. “Software” specially designed for equipment for the production of structural composites, fibres, prepregs 
and preforms controlled by X.B.IX.001, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 
2021/821.
X.E.IX.001 “Technology” for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of fibrous and filamentary materials controlled by 
X.C.IX.004 and X.C.IX.010.
X.E.IX.002 “Technology” for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of nanomaterials controlled by X.C.IX.011.
Category X – Materials Processing
X.A.X.001 Explosives or detonator detection equipment, both bulk and trace based, consisting of an automated device, or 
combination of devices for automated decision making to detect the presence of different types of explosives, 
explosive residue, or detonators; and components, other than those specified in the CML or in Regula­
tion (EU) 2021/821:
a. Explosives detection equipment for “automated decision making” to detect and identify bulk explosives 
utilizing, but not limited to, X-ray (e.g., computed tomography, dual energy, or coherent scattering), nuclear 
(e.g., thermal neutron analysis, pulse fast neutron analysis, pulse fast neutron transmission spectroscopy, and 
gamma resonance absorption), or electromagnetic techniques (e.g., quadropole resonance and dielec­
trometry);
b. Not used;
c. Detonator detection equipment for automated decision making to detect and identify initiation devices (e.g. 
detonators, blasting caps) utilizing, but not limited to, X-ray (e.g. dual energy or computed tomography) or 
electromagnetic techniques.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
62/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(29)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
Note: Explosives or detonation detection equipment in X.A.X.001 includes equipment for screening people, documents, 
baggage, other personal effects, cargo and/or mail.
Technical Notes:
1. “Automated decision making” is the ability of the equipment to detect explosives or detonators at the design or operator- 
selected level of sensitivity and provide an automated alarm when explosives or detonators at or above the sensitivity level 
are detected.
2. This entry does not control equipment that depends on operator interpretation of indicators such as inorganic/organic 
color mapping of the items(s) being scanned.
3. Explosives and detonators include commercial charges and devices controlled by X.C.VIII.004 and X.C.IX.006 and 
energetic materials controlled by 1C011, 1C111 and 1C239 (30).
X.A.X.002 Concealed object detection equipment operating in the frequency range from 30 GHz to 3 000 GHz and having 
a spatial resolution of 0,1 mrad (milliradian) up to and including 1 mrad (milliradian) at a standoff distance of 
100 m; and components, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.
Note: Concealed object detection equipment includes but is not limited to equipment for screening people, documents, 
baggage, other personal effects, cargo and/or mail.
Technical Note:
The range of frequencies span what is generally considered as the millimetre-wave, submillimetre-wave and terahertz 
frequency regions.
X.A.X.003 Bearings and bearing systems not controlled by 2A001 (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Ball bearings or Solid ball bearings, having tolerances specified by the manufacturer in accordance with 
ABEC 7, ABEC 7P, or ABEC 7T or ISO Standard Class 4 or better (or equivalents) and having any of the 
following characteristics:
1. Manufactured for use at operating temperatures above 573 K (300 oC) either by using special materials or 
by special heat treatment; or
2. With lubricating elements or component modifications that, according to the manufacturer’s 
specifications, are specially designed to enable the bearings to operate at speeds exceeding 2,3 million 
“DN”;
b. Solid tapered roller bearings, having tolerances specified by the manufacturer in accordance with 
ANSI/AFBMA Class 00 (inch) or Class A (metric) or better (or equivalents) and having either of the following 
characteristics:
1. With lubricating elements or component modifications that, according to the manufacturer’s 
specifications, are specially designed to enable the bearings to operate at speeds exceeding 2,3 million 
“DN”; or
2. Manufactured for use at operating temperatures below 219 K (– 54 oC) or above 423 K (150 oC);
c. Gas-lubricated foil bearing manufactured for use at operating temperatures of 561 K (288 oC) or higher and 
a unit load capacity exceeding 1 MPa;
d. Active magnetic bearing systems;
e. Fabric-lined self-aligning or fabric-lined journal sliding bearings manufactured for use at operating 
temperatures below 219 K (– 54 oC) or above 423 K (150 oC).
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
63/110
(30)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
Technical Notes:
1. “DN” is the product of the bearing bore diameter in mm and the bearing rotational velocity in rpm.
2. Operating temperatures include those temperatures obtained when a gas turbine engine has stopped after operation.
X.A.X.004 Piping, fittings and valves made of, or lined with stainless, copper-nickel alloy or other alloy steel containing 
10 % or more nickel and/or chromium:
a. Pressure tube, pipe, and fittings of 200 mm or more inside diameter, and suitable for operation at pressures 
of 3,4 MPa or greater;
b. Pipe valves having all of the following characteristics that are not controlled by 2B350.g (31):
1. A pipe size connection of 200 mm or more inside diameter; and
2. Rated at 10,3 MPa or more.
Notes:
1. See X.D.X.005 for “software” for items controlled under this entry.
2. See 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and X.E.X.003 (“use”) for technology for items controlled under 
this entry.
3. See related controls 2A226, 2B350 and X.B.X.010.
X.A.X.005 Pumps designed to move molten metals by electromagnetic forces.
Notes:
1. See X.D.X.005 for “software” for items controlled under this entry.
2. See 2E001 (“development”), 2E002 (“production”), and X.E.X.003 (“use”) for “technology” for items controlled under 
this entry.
3. Pumps for use in liquid-metal-cooled reactors are controlled by 0A001.
X.A.X.006 “Portable electric generators” and specially designed components.
Technical Note:
“Portable electric generators” – The generators that are in X.A.X.006 are portable – 2 268 kg or less on wheels or 
transportable in a 2,5 tonnes truck without a special set up requirement.
X.A.X.007 Specific processing equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as 
follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. Bellows sealed valves;
b. Not used.
X.B.X.001 “Continuous flow reactors” and their “modular components”.
Technical Notes:
1. For the purposes of X.B.X.001, “continuous flow reactors” consist of plug and play systems where reactants are 
continuously fed into the reactor and the resultant product is collected at the outlet.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
64/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(31)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
2. For purposes of X.B.X.001, “modular components” are fluidic modules, liquid pumps, valves, packed-bed modules, 
mixer modules, pressure gauges, liquid-liquid separators, etc.
X.B.X.002 Nucleic acid assemblers and synthesizers not controlled by 2B352.i, which are partly or entirely automated, and 
designed to generate nucleic acids greater than 50 bases.
X.B.X.003 Automated peptide synthesizers capable to work under controlled atmosphere conditions.
X.B.X.004 Numerical control units for machine tools and “numerically controlled” machine tools, other than those 
specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821 (see List of Items Controlled):
a. “Numerical control” units for machine tools:
1. Having four interpolating axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control; or
2. Having two or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control and a minimum 
programmable increment better (less) than 0,001 mm;
3. “Numerical control” units for machine tools having two, three or four interpolating axes that can be 
coordinated simultaneously for contouring control, and capable of receiving directly (on-line) and 
processing computer-aided-design (CAD) data for internal preparation of machine instructions; or
b. Motion control boards specially designed for machine tools and having any of the following characteristics:
1. Interpolation in more than four axes;
2. Capable of real-time processing of data to modify tool path, feed rate and spindle data, during the 
machining operation, by any of the following:
a. Automatic calculation and modification of part program data for machining in two or more axes by 
means of measuring cycles and access to source data; or
b. Adaptive control with more than one physical variable measured and processed by means of 
a computing model (strategy) to change one or more machining instructions to optimize the process; 
or
3. Capable of receiving and processing CAD data for internal preparation of machine instructions;
c. “Numerically controlled” machine tools that, according to the manufacturer’s technical specifications, can be 
equipped with electronic devices for simultaneous contouring control in two or more axes and that have 
both of the following characteristics:
1. Two or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control; and
2. Positioning accuracies according to ISO 230/2 (2006), with all compensations available:
a. Better than 15 μm along any linear axis (overall positioning) for grinding machines;
b. Better than 15 μm along any linear axis (overall positioning) for milling machines; or
c. Better than 15 μm along any linear axis (overall positioning) for turning machines; or
d. Machine tools, as follows, for removing or cutting metals, ceramics or composites, that, according to 
the manufacturer’s technical specifications, can be equipped with electronic devices for simultaneous 
contouring control in two or more axes:
1. Machine tools for turning, grinding, milling or any combination thereof, having two or more axes 
that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control and having any of the following 
characteristics:
a. One or more contouring “tilting spindles”;
Note: X.B.X.004.d.1.a. applies to machine tools for grinding or milling only.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
65/110
b. “Camming” (axial displacement) in one revolution of the spindle less (better) than 0,0006 mm 
total indicator reading (TIR);
Note: X.B.X.004.d.1.b. applies to machine tools for turning only.
c. “Run-out” (out-of-true running) in one revolution of the spindle less (better) than 0,0006 mm 
total indicator reading (TIR); or
d. The positioning accuracies, with all compensations available, are less (better) than: 0,001o on any 
rotary axis;
2. Electrical discharge machines (EDM) of the wire feed type that have five or more axes that can be 
coordinated simultaneously for contouring control.
X.B.X.005 Non-“numerically controlled” machine tools for generating optical quality surfaces, (see List of Items Controlled) 
and specially designed components therefor:
a. Turning machines using a single point cutting tool and having all of the following characteristics:
1. Slide positioning accuracy less (better) than 0,0005 mm per 300 mm of travel;
2. Bidirectional slide positioning repeatability less (better) than 0,00025 mm per 300 mm of travel;
3. Spindle “run-out” and “camming” less (better) than 0,0004 mm total indicator reading (TIR);
4. Angular deviation of the slide movement (yaw, pitch and roll) less (better) than 2 seconds of arc, TIR, over 
full travel; and
5. Slide perpendicularity less (better) than 0,001 mm per 300 mm of travel;
Technical Note:
The bidirectional slide positioning repeatability (R) of an axis is the maximum value of the repeatability of positioning at 
any position along or around the axis determined using the procedure and under the conditions specified in part 2.11 of 
ISO 230/2: 1988.
b. Fly cutting machines having all of the following characteristics:
1. Spindle “run-out” and “camming” less (better) than 0,0004 mm TIR; and
2. Angular deviation of slide movement (yaw, pitch and roll) less (better) than 2 seconds of arc, TIR, over full 
travel.
X.B.X.006 Gearmaking and/or finishing machinery not controlled by 2B003 capable of producing gears to a quality level 
of better than AGMA 11.
X.B.X.007 Dimensional inspection or measuring systems or equipment not controlled by 2B006 or 2B206, as follows (see 
List of Items Controlled):
a. Manual dimensional inspection machines, having both of the following characteristics:
1. Two or more axes; and
2. A measurement uncertainty equal to or less (better) than (3 + L/300) μm in any axes (L measured length in 
mm).
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
66/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
X.B.X.008 “Robots” not controlled by 2B007 or 2B207 that are capable of employing feedback information in real-time 
processing from one or more sensors to generate or modify programs or to generate or modify numerical 
program data.
X.B.X.009 Assemblies, circuit boards or inserts specially designed for machine tools controlled by X.B.X.004, or for 
equipment controlled by X.B.X.006, X.B.X.007 or X.B.X.008:
a. Spindle assemblies, consisting of spindles and bearings as a minimal assembly, with radial (“run-out”) or axial 
(“camming”) axis motion in one revolution of the spindle less (better) than 0,0006 mm total indicator 
reading (TIR);
b. Single point diamond cutting tool inserts, having all of the following characteristics:
1. Flawless and chip-free cutting edge when magnified 400 times in any direction;
2. Cutting radius from 0,1 to 5 mm inclusive; and
3. Cutting radius out-of-roundness less (better) than 0,002 mm TIR.
c. Specially designed printed circuit boards with mounted components capable of upgrading, according to the 
manufacturer’s specifications, “numerical control” units, machine tools or feed-back devices to or above the 
levels specified in X.B.X.004, X.B.X.006, X.B.X.007, X.B.X.008, or X.B.X.009.
Technical Note:
This entry does not control measuring interferometer systems, without closed or open loop feedback, containing a laser to 
measure slide movement errors of machine-tools, dimensional inspection machines or similar equipment.
X.B.X.010 Specific processing equipment, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, as 
follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a.
Isostatic presses, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
b. Bellows manufacturing equipment, including hydraulic forming equipment and bellows forming dies;
c.
Laser welding machines;
d. MIG welders;
e.
E-beam welders;
f.
Monel equipment, including valves, piping, tanks and vessels;
g. 304 and 316 stainless steel valves, piping, tanks and vessels;
Note: Fittings are considered part of piping for purposes of X.B.X.010.g.
h. Mining and drilling equipment, as follows:
1. Large boring equipment capable of drilling holes greater than 61 cm in diameter;
2. Large earth-moving equipment used in the mining industry;
i.
Electroplating equipment designed for coating parts with nickel or aluminium;
j.
Pumps designed for industrial service and for use with an electrical motor of 5 HP or greater;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
67/110
k. Vacuum valves, piping, flanges, gaskets and related equipment specially designed for use in high-vacuum 
service, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821;
l.
Spin forming and flow forming machines, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 
2021/821;
m. Centrifugal multiplane balancing machines, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 
2021/821; or
n. Austenitic stainless steel plate, valves, piping, tanks and vessels.
X.B.X.011 Floor-mounted fume hoods (walk-in style) with a minimum nominal width of 2,5 metres.
X.B.X.012 Class II biosafety cabinets and glove boxes.
X.B.X.013 Batch centrifuges with a rotor capacity of 4 litres or greater, usable with biological materials.
X.B.X.014 Fermenters with an internal volume of 10–20 litres, usable with biological materials.
X.B.X.015 Reaction vessels, reactors, agitators, heat exchangers, condensers, pumps (including single seal pumps), valves, 
storage tanks, containers, receivers, and distillation or absorption columns that meet performance parameters of 
the control 2B350 (32), regardless of their materials of construction.
Note: For the purpose of the control X.B.X.015, plumbing valves and storage tanks with total internal (geometric) volume 
less than 1 m3 (1 000 litres) designed for domestic water or gas systems are excluded.
X.B.X.016 Conventional or turbulent air-flow clean-air rooms and self-contained fan-HEPA filter units that may be used 
for P3 or P4 (BSL 3, BSL 4, L3, L4) containment facilities.
X.B.X.017 Vacuum pumps with a manufacturer’s specified maximum flow-rate greater than 1 m3/h (under standard 
temperature and pressure conditions), casings (pump bodies), preformed casing-liners, impellers, rotors, and jet 
pump nozzles designed for such pumps, in which all surfaces that come into direct contact with the chemicals 
being processed are made from controlled materials.
X.B.X.018 Laboratory equipment, including parts and accessories for such equipment, for the analysis or detection, 
destructive or non-destructive, of chemical substances.
X.B.X.019 Whole chlor-alkali electrolysis cells – mercury, diaphragm, and membrane.
X.B.X.020 Titanium electrodes (including those with coatings produced from other metal oxides), specially designed for 
use in chlor-alkali cells.
X.B.X.021 Nickel electrodes (including those with coatings produced from other metal oxides), specially designed for use 
in chlor-alkali cells.
X.B.X.022 Bipolar titanium nickel electrodes (including those with coatings produced from other metal oxides), specially 
designed for use in chlor-alkali cells.
X.B.X.023 Asbestos diaphragms specially designed for use in chlor-alkali cells.
X.B.X.024 Fluoropolymer based diaphragms specially designed for use in chlor-alkali cells.
X.B.X.025 Fluoropolymer based ion exchange membranes specially designed for use in chlor-alkali cells.
X.B.X.026 Compressors specially designed to compress wet or dry chlorine, regardless of material of construction.
X.B.X.027 Microwave reactors – Machinery, plant or laboratory equipment, whether or not electrically heated, for the 
treatment of materials by a process involving a change of temperature such as heating.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
68/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
(32)
Ref. Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821
X.D.X.001 “Software” specially designed or modified for the “development”, “production” or “use” of equipment controlled 
by X.A.X.001.
X.D.X.002 “Software” “required” for the “development”, “production” or “use” of concealed object detection equipment 
controlled by X.A.X.002.
X.D.X.003 “Software” specially designed for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of equipment controlled by X.B. 
X.004, X.B.X.006, or X.B.X.007, X.B.X.008, and X.B.X.009.
X.D.X.004 Specific “software”, as follows (see List of Items Controlled):
a. “Software” to provide adaptive control and having both of the following characteristics:
1. For flexible manufacturing units (FMUs); and
2. Capable of generating or modifying, in real-time processing, programs or data by using the signals 
obtained simultaneously by means of at least two detection techniques, such as:
a. Machine vision (optical ranging);
b. Infrared imaging;
c. Acoustical imaging (acoustical ranging);
d. Tactile measurement;
e. Inertial positioning;
f. Force measurement; and
g. Torque measurement.
Note: X.D.X.004.a does not control “software” which only provides rescheduling of functionally identical equipment 
within flexible manufacturing units using pre-stored part programs and a pre-stored strategy for the distribution of the 
part programs.
b. Not used.
X.D.X.005 “Software” specially designed or modified for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of items controlled by 
X.A.X.004 or X.A.X.005.
Note: See 2E001 (“development”) for “technology” for “software” controlled under this entry.
X.D.X.006 “Software” specially designed for the “development” or “production” of portable electric generators controlled 
by X.A.X.006.
X.D.X.007 “Software” for the “development”, “production”, or “use” of CNC equipment, classified in any of the headings 
from 8456 to 8465 of the Common Customs Tariff, not covered in X.D.X.003.
X.E.X.001 “Technology” “required” for the “development,” “production” or “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.X.002 or 
“required” for the “development” of “software” controlled by X.D.X.002.
Note: See X.A.X.002 and X.D.X.002 for related commodity and “software” controls.
X.E.X.002 “Technology” for the “use” of equipment controlled by X.B.X.004, X.B.X.006, X.B.X.007, or X.B.X.008.
X.E.X.003 “Technology” according to the General Technology Note for the “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.X.004 or 
X.A.X.005.
X.E.X.004 “Technology” for the “use” of portable electric generators controlled by X.A.X.006.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
69/110
Part B
1. Semiconductor devices
CN Code
Description
8541 10
Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-emitting diodes (LED)
8541 21
Transistors, other than photosensitive transistors with a dissipation rate of less than 1 W
8541 29
Other transistors, other than photosensitive transistors
8541 30
Thyristors, diacs and triacs (excl. photosensitive semiconductor devices)
8541 49
Photosensitive semiconductor devices (excluding Photovoltaic generators and cells)
8541 51
Other semiconductor devices: Semiconductor-based transducers
8541 59
Other semiconductor devices
8541 60
Mounted piezo-electric crystals
8541 90
Semiconductor devices: Parts
2. Electronic integrated circuits, manufacturing and testing equipment
CN Code
Description
3818 00
Chemical elements doped for use in electronics, in the form of discs, wafers or similar forms; 
chemical compounds doped for use in electronics
8486 10
Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of boules or wafers
8486 20
Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of semiconductor devices or of electronic 
integrated circuits
8486 40
Machines and apparatus specified in note 11(C) to this Chapter
8534 00
Printed circuits
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
70/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN Code
Description
8537 10
Boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets and other bases, equipped with two or more apparatus 
of heading 8535 or 8536, for electric control or the distribution of electricity, including those 
incorporating instruments or apparatus of Chapter 90, and numerical control apparatus, other 
than switching apparatus of heading 8517, for a voltage not exceeding 1 000 V
8542 31
Processors and controllers, whether or not combined with memories, converters, logic circuits, 
amplifiers, clock and timing circuits, or other circuits
8542 32
Memories
8542 33
Amplifiers
8542 39
Other Electronic Integrated Circuits
8542 90
Electronic integrated circuits: Parts
8543 20
Signal generators
9027 50
Other instruments and apparatus using optical radiation (UV, visible, IR)
9030 20
Oscilloscopes and oscillographs
9030 32
Multimeters with recording device
9030 39
Instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking voltage, current, resistance or electrical 
power, with recording device
9030 82
Instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking semiconductor wafers or devices
3. Photographic cameras, sensors and optical components
CN Code
Description
8525 89
Other television cameras, digital cameras and video camera recorders
8529 90
Other parts suitable for use solely or principally with the apparatus of headings 8524 to 8528
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
71/110
CN Code
Description
9006 30
Cameras specially designed for underwater use, for aerial survey or for medical or surgical 
examination of internal organs; comparison cameras for forensic or criminological purposes
9006 91
Parts and accessories for cameras
9013 10
Telescopic sights for fitting to arms; periscopes; telescopes designed to form parts of machines, 
appliances, instruments or apparatus of this Chapter or Section XVI
9013 80
Other optical devices, appliances and instruments
9025 19
Other thermometers and pyrometers, not combined with other instruments
9032 10
Thermostats
4. Other electrical/magnetic components
CN Code
Description
8501 32
DC motors and DC generators of an output exceeding 750 W but not exceeding 75 kW 
(excluding photovoltaic generators)
8504 31
Transformers having a power handling capacity not exceeding 1 kVA (excluding liquid dielectric 
transformers)
8504 40
Static converters
8505 11
Permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent magnets after magnetisation; of 
metal
8529 10
Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts suitable for use therewith
8532 21
Other fixed capacitors of tantalum
8532 22
Aluminium electrolytic fixed electrical capacitors (excluding power capacitors)
8532 24
Ceramic dielectric multilayer capacitors
8533 21
Fixed electrical resistors for a power handling capacity not exceeding 20 W (excluding heating 
resistors, and fixed carbon resistors)
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
72/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN Code
Description
8533 40
Electrical variable resistors, including rheostats and potentiometers (excluding wirewound 
variable resistors and heating resistors)
8536 41
Relays, for a voltage not exceeding 60 V
8536 49
Relays for a voltage exceeding 60 V but not exceeding 1 000 V
8536 50
Other switches
8536 69
Plugs and sockets
8536 90
Other apparatus for switching or protecting electrical circuits, or for making connections to or 
in electrical circuits (for example, switches, relays, fuses, surge suppressors, plugs, sockets, lamp 
holders and other connectors, junction boxes), for a voltage not exceeding 1 000 V; connectors 
for optical fibres, optical fibre bundles or cables
8543 70 02
Microwave amplifiers
8543 70 04
Digital flight-data recorders
8543 70 30
Aerial amplifiers
8548 00
Electrical parts of machinery or apparatus, not specified or included elsewhere in Chapter 85
5. Machine tools, additive manufacturing equipment, and related items
CN Code
Description
8205 59 80
Hand tools, including glaziers’ diamonds, excluding household tools, and tool for masons, 
moulders, cement workers, plasterers and painters
8456 11
Machine tools for working any material by removal of material, operated by laser
8457 10
Machining centres for working metal
8458 11
Horizontal lathes, including turning centres, for removing metal, numerically controlled
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
73/110
CN Code
Description
8458 91
Lathes (including turning centres) for removing metal, numerically controlled (excluding 
horizontal lathes)
8459 61
Milling machines for metals, numerically controlled (excluding lathes and turning centres of 
heading 8458, way-type unit head machines, drilling machines, boring-milling machines, 
boring machines, and knee-type milling machines)
8466 10
Tool holders, for any type of tool for working in the hand and for machine tools; self-opening 
dieheads
8466 93
Parts and accessories suitable for use solely or principally with the machines of headings 8456 
to 8461, n.e.s.
8485 20
Machines for additive manufacturing by plastics or rubber deposit
8485 30
Machines for additive manufacturing by plaster, cement, ceramics or glass deposit
8485 90
Parts of machines for additive manufacturing
6. Energetic materials and precursors
CN Code
Description
2829 90
Perchlorates; bromates and perbromates; iodates and periodates
4706 10
Pulps of fibres derived from recovered (waste and scrap) paper or paperboard or of other fibrous 
cellulosic material: Cotton linters pulp
7. Electronic devices, modules and assemblies
CN Code
Description
8471 50
Processing units other than those of subheading 8471 41 or 8471 49, whether or not 
containing in the same housing one or two of the following types of unit: storage units, input 
units, output units
8471 70 98
Other storage units
8471 80
Units for automatic data-processing machines (excl. processing units, input or output units and 
storage units)
8517 62
Machines for the reception, conversion and transmission or regeneration of voice, images or 
other data, including switching and routing apparatus
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
74/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN Code
Description
8517 69
Other apparatus for the transmission or reception of voice, images or other data, including 
apparatus for communication in a wired or wireless network
8517 79
Parts of telephone sets, telephones for cellular networks or for other wireless networks and of 
other apparatus for the transmission or reception of voice, images or other data, excluding 
aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds and their parts
8526 91
Radio navigational aid apparatus
9014 20
Instruments and appliances for aeronautical or space navigation (other than compasses)
9014 80
Other navigational instruments and appliances
8. Chemicals, metals, alloys, composites and other advanced materials
CN Code
Description
2610 00
Chromium ores and concentrates
2819 10
Chromium trioxide
2819 90
Other chromium oxides and hydroxides
8112 21
Chromium: unwrought; powders
8112 22
Chromium: Waste and scrap
8112 29
Chromium: Other
8112 41
Unwrought rhenium and rhenium waste, scrap and powders
8112 49
Rhenium, other than unwrought, waste, scrap and powders
9. Machinery parts, assemblies and components
CN Code
Description
8482 10
Ball bearings
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
75/110
CN Code
Description
8482 20
Tapered roller bearings, including cone and tapered roller assemblies
8482 30
Spherical roller bearings
8482 50
Other cylindrical roller bearings, including cage and roller assemblies
10. Miscellaneous
CN Code
Description
8807 30
Other parts of aeroplanes, helicopters or unmanned aircraft
’;
(2) in Annex Vb, the heading is replaced by the following:
‘List of partner countries referred to in Articles 1bb(7); 1e(4), 1f(4), 1fc(4), 1ga(4); 1jc(9), 1jc(13) and 1s(4)’;
(3) in Annex Vba, the heading is replaced by the following:
‘List of countries referred to in Articles 1za(2), 8g(1), 8ga(2) and 7(2a)’;
(4) Annex XIVa is replaced by the following:
‘ANNEX XIVa
List of goods and technology as referred to in Article 1s(1a) on the prohibition of transit via Belarus
CN code
Description
8407 10
Spark-ignition reciprocating or rotary internal combustion piston engine, for aircraft
8409 10
Parts suitable for use solely or principally with internal combustion piston engine for aircraft
8409 99
Parts suitable for use solely or principally with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine 
(diesel or semi-diesel engine), n.e.s.
8412 21
Hydraulic power engines and motors, linear acting (cylinders)
8413 50
Reciprocating positive displacement pumps for liquids, power-driven, n.e.s.
8421 23
Oil or petrol-filters for internal combustion engines
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
76/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
8421 31
Intake air filters for internal combustion engines
8425 11
Pulley tackle and hoists other than skip hoists or hoists of a kind used for raising vehicles, powered by 
electric motor
8428 39
Continuous-action elevators and conveyors, for goods or materials (excluding those for underground 
use and bucket, belt or pneumatic types)
8429 59
Self-propelled mechanical shovels, excavators and shovel loaders (excluding machinery with a 360o 
revolving superstructure and front-end shovel loaders)
8431 39
Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the machinery of heading 8428, (excluding parts of lifts, 
skip hoists or escalators), n.e.s.
8466 20
Work holders for machine tools
8467 29
Electromechanical tools for working in the hand, with self-contained electric motor (excluding saws and 
drills)
8471 30
Portable automatic data-processing machines, weighing not more than 10 kg, consisting of at least 
a central processing unit, a keyboard and a display
8471 70
Storage units for automatic data-processing machines
8474 39
Machinery for mixing or kneading solid mineral substances, including those in powder or paste form 
(excluding concrete and mortar mixers, machines for mixing mineral substances with bitumen and 
calenders)
8481 20
Valves for oleohydraulic or pneumatic transmission
8482 99
Parts of ball or roller bearings (excluding balls, needles and rollers)
8483 50
Flywheels and pulleys, including pulley blocks
8502 20
Generating sets with spark-ignition internal combustion piston engines
8507 10
Lead-acid accumulators of a kind used for starting piston engines
8511 10
Sparking plugs of a kind used for spark-ignition or compression-ignition internal combustion engines
’;
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
77/110
(5) Annex XVIII is replaced by the following:
‘ANNEX XVIII
List of goods and technologies which could contribute to the enhancement of Belarusian industrial capacities 
referred to in Article 1bb
CN code
Description
0601
Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms, crowns and rhizomes, dormant, in growth or in flower, chicory 
plants and roots other than roots of heading 1212
0602 30
Rhododendrons and azaleas, grafted or not
0602 40
Roses, grafted or not
0602 90
Other live plants (including their roots), cuttings and slips; mushroom spawn – Other
0604 20
Foliage, branches and other parts of plants, without flowers or flower buds, and grasses, mosses and 
lichens, being goods of a kind suitable for bouquets or for ornamental purposes, fresh, dried, dyed, 
bleached, impregnated or otherwise prepared – Fresh
2508
Clays, andalusite, kyanite and sillimanite, whether or not calcined; mullite; chamotte or dinas earths 
(excl. kaolin and other kaolinic clays, and expanded clay)
2509
Chalk
2512
Siliceous fossil meals (for example, kieselguhr, tripolite and diatomite) and similar siliceous earths, 
whether or not calcined, of an apparent specific gravity of 1 or less
2515
Marble, travertine, ecaussine and other calcareous monumental or building stone of an apparent specific 
gravity of ≥ 2,5, and alabaster, whether or not roughly trimmed or merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, 
into blocks or slabs of a square or rectangular shape
2518
Dolomite, whether or not calcined or sintered, including dolomite roughly trimmed or merely cut, by 
sawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of a rectangular (including square) shape
2519
Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite); fused magnesia; dead-burned “sintered” magnesia, whether 
or not containing small quantities of other oxides added before sintering; other magnesium oxide, 
whether or not pure
2520
Gypsum; anhydrite; plasters (consisting of calcined gypsum or calcium sulphate), whether or not 
coloured, with or without small quantities of accelerators or retarders
2521
Limestone flux; limestone and other calcareous stone, of a kind used for the manufacture of lime or 
cement
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
78/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
2522
Quicklime, slaked lime and hydraulic lime other than calcium oxide and hydroxide of heading 2825
2525
Mica, whether or not rifted into sheets or splittings; mica waste
2526
Natural steatite, whether or not roughly trimmed or merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or 
slabs of a rectangular (including square) shape; talc
2530 20
Kieserite, epsomite (natural magnesium sulphates)
2602
Manganese ores
2615
Niobium, tantalum, vanadium or zirconium ores and concentrates
2701
Coal; briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels manufactured from coal
2702
Lignite, whether or not agglomerated, excluding jet
2703
Peat (including peat litter), whether or not agglomerated
2704
Coke and semi-coke of coal, of lignite or of peat, whether or not agglomerated; retort carbon
2707 30
Xylol (xylenes)
2708
Pitch and Pitch coke, obtained from coal tar or from other mineral tars
2710
Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals (excl. crude); preparations containing ≥ 
70 % by weight of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals, these oils being the 
basic constituents of the preparations, n.e.s.; waste oils containing mainly petroleum or bituminous 
minerals
2712
Petroleum jelly, paraffin wax, micro-crystalline petroleum wax, slack wax, ozokerite, lignite wax, peat 
wax, other mineral waxes, and similar products obtained by synthesis or by other processes, whether or 
not coloured
2715
Bituminous mastics, cut-backs and other bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt, on natural 
bitumen, on petroleum bitumen, on mineral tar or on mineral tar pitch – Other
Ex 2804
Hydrogen and other non-metals (excluding rare gases)
2806
Hydrogen chloride “hydrochloric acid”; chlorosulphuric acid
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
79/110
CN code
Description
2811
Other inorganic acids and other inorganic oxygen compounds of non-metals
2813
Sulphides of non-metals; commercial phosphorus trisulphide
2814
Ammonia, anhydrous or in aqueous solution
2815
Sodium hydroxide “caustic soda”, potassium hydroxide “caustic potash”; peroxides of sodium or 
potassium
2818 30
Aluminium hydroxide
2819
Chromium oxides and hydroxides
2820
Manganese oxides
2825
Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their inorganic salts; inorganic bases, metal oxides, hydroxides and 
peroxides, n.e.s.
2827
Chlorides, chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides; bromides and bromide oxides; iodides and iodide 
oxides
2828
Hypochlorites; commercial calcium hypochlorite; chlorites; hypobromites
2829
Chlorates and perchlorates; bromates and perbromates; iodates and periodates
2832 20
Sulphites (excluding sodium)
2833
Sulphates; alums; peroxosulphates “persulphates”
2834
Nitrites; nitrates
2836
Carbonates; peroxocarbonates “percarbonates”; commercial ammonium carbonate containing 
ammonium carbamate
2839
Silicates; commercial alkali metal silicates
2840 30
Peroxoborates (perborates)
2841
Salts of oxometallic or peroxometallic acids
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
80/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
2843
Colloidal precious metals; inorganic or organic compounds of precious metals, whether or not 
chemically defined; amalgams of precious metals
2846
Compounds, inorganic or organic, of rare-earth metals, of yttrium or of scandium or of mixtures of 
these metals
2847
Hydrogen peroxide, whether or not solidified with urea
2901
Acyclic hydrocarbons
2902
Cyclic hydrocarbons
2903
Halogenated derivatives of hydrocarbons
2904
Sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of hydrocarbons, whether or not halogenated
2905
Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
2906
Cyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
2907
Phenols; phenol-alcohols
2909
Ethers, ether-alcohols, ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols, alcohol peroxides, ether peroxide, ketone 
peroxides, whether or not chemically defined, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated 
derivatives
2910
Epoxides, epoxyalcohols, epoxyphenols and epoxyethers, with a three-membered ring, and their 
halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
2911
Acetals and hemiacetals, whether or not with other oxygen function, and their halogenated, 
sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
2912
Aldehydes, whether or not with other oxygen function; cyclic polymers of aldehydes; paraformaldehyde
2914
Ketones and quinones, whether or not with other oxygen function, and their halogenated, sulphonated, 
nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
2915
Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids and their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids; their 
halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
2916
Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, cyclic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, 
peroxides and peroxyacids; their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
81/110
CN code
Description
2917
Polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids; their halogenated, 
sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
2920
Esters of inorganic acids of non-metals and their salts; their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or 
nitrosated derivatives
2921 22
Hexamethylenediamine and its salts
2921 41
Aniline and its salts
2922 11
Monoethanolamine and its salts
2922 43
Anthranilic acid and its salts
2923 20
Lecithins and other phosphoaminolipids
2924
Carboxyamide-function compounds; amide-function compounds of carbonic acid
2925
Carboxyimide-function compounds, incl. saccharin and its salts, and imine-function compounds
2926
Nitrile-function compounds
2930
Organo-sulphur compounds
2933 29
Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom[s] only, containing an unfused imidazole ring, 
whether or not hydrogenated, in the structure (excl. hydantoin and its derivatives, and products of 
subheading 3002 10)
2933 54
Other derivatives of malonylurea (barbituric acid); salts thereof
2933 71
6-Hexanelactam (epsilon-caprolactam)
2933 79
Lactams (excl. 6-hexanelactam “epsilon-caprolactam”, clobazam (inn), methyprylon (inn), and inorganic 
or organic compounds of mercury)
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
82/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
2933 99
Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom[s] only (excl. those containing an unfused pyrazole, 
imidazole, pyridine or triazine ring, whether or not hydrogenated, a quinoline or isoquinoline 
ring-system, not further fused, whether or not hydrogenated, a pyrimidine ring, whether or not 
hydrogenated, or piperazine ring in the structure, and lactams, alprazolam (inn), camazepam (inn), 
chlordiazepoxide (inn), clonazepam (inn), clorazepate, delorazepam (inn), diazepam (inn), estazolam 
(inn), ethyl loflazepate (inn), fludiazepam (inn), flunitrazepam (inn), flurazepam (inn), halazepam (inn), 
lorazepam (inn), lormetazepam (inn), mazindol (inn), medazepam (inn), midazolam (inn), nimetazepam 
(inn), nitrazepam (inn), nordazepam (inn), oxazepam (inn), pinazepam (inn), prazepam (inn), 
pyrovalerone (inn), temazepam (inn), tetrazepam (inn) and triazolam (inn), salts thereof and 
azinphos-methyl (iso))
3201
Tanning extracts of vegetable origin; tannins and their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives
3202
Synthetic organic tanning substances; inorganic tanning substances; tanning preparations, whether or 
not containing natural tanning substances; enzymatic preparations for pre-tanning
3203
Colouring matter of vegetable or animal origin, incl. dye extracts (excl. animal black), whether or not 
chemically defined; preparations based on colouring matter of vegetable or animal origin of a kind used 
to dye fabrics or produce colorant preparations (excl. preparations of heading 3207, 3208, 3209, 3210, 
3213 and 3215) – Other
3204 90
Synthetic organic colouring matter, whether or not chemically defined; preparations as specified in note 
3 to this Chapter based on synthetic organic colouring matter; synthetic organic products of a kind used 
as fluorescent brightening agents or as luminophores, whether or not chemically defined
3205
Colour lakes (other than chinese or japanese lacquer and paints); preparations based on colour lakes of 
a kind used to dye fabrics or produce colorant preparations (excl. preparations of heading 3207, 3208, 
3209, 3210, 3213 and 3215)
3206 41
Ultramarine and preparations based thereon of a kind used for colouring any material or produce 
colorant preparations (excl. preparations of heading 3207, 3208, 3209, 3210, 3213 and 3215)
3206 49
Inorganic or mineral colouring matter, n.e.s.; preparations based on inorganic or mineral colouring 
matter of a kind used for colouring any material or produce colorant preparations, n.e.s. (excl. 
preparations of heading 3207, 3208, 3209, 3210, 3213 and 3215 and inorganic products of a kind 
used as liminophores) – Other
3207
Prepared pigments, prepared opacifiers and prepared colours, vitrifiable enamels and glazes, engobes, 
liquid lustres and similar preparations of a kind used in the ceramic, enamelling or glass industry; glass 
frit and other glass in the form of powder, granules or flakes
3208
Paints and varnishes, incl. enamels and lacquers, based on synthetic polymers or chemically modified 
natural polymers, dispersed or dissolved in a non-aqueous medium; solutions of products of headings 
3901 to 3913 in volatile organic solvents, containing > 50 % solvent by weight (excl. solutions of 
collodion)
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
83/110
CN code
Description
3209
Paints and varnishes, incl. enamels and lacquers, based on synthetic polymers or chemically modified 
natural polymers, dispersed or dissolved in an aqueous medium
3210
Other paints and varnishes (including enamels, lacquers and distempers); prepared water pigments of 
a kind used for finishing leather
3212 90
Pigments (including metallic powders and flakes) dispersed in non-aqueous media, in liquid or paste 
form, of a kind used in the manufacture of paints (including enamels); stamping foils; dyes and other 
colouring matter put up in forms or packings for retail sale – Other
3214
Glaziers’ putty, grafting putty, resin cements, caulking compounds and other mastics; painters’ fillings; 
non-refractory surfacing preparations for façades, indoor walls, floors, ceilings or the like
3215 11
Printing ink – Black
3215 19
Printing ink – Other
3403
Lubricant preparations, incl. cutting-oil preparations, bolt or nut release preparations, anti-rust or 
anti-corrosion preparations and mould-release preparations based on lubricants; textile lubricant 
preparations and preparations of a kind used for the oil or grease treatment of textile materials, leather, 
furskins or other materials (excl. preparations containing, as basic constituents, ≥ 70 % petroleum oil or 
bituminous mineral oil by weight)
3505 10
Dextrins and other modified starches
3506 99
Prepared glues and other prepared adhesives, not elsewhere specified or included; products suitable for 
use as glues or adhesives, put up for retail sale as glues or adhesives, not exceeding a net weight of 
1 kg – Other
3604
Fireworks, signalling flares, rain rockets, fog signals and other pyrotechnic articles
3605
Matches, other than pyrotechnic articles of heading 3604
3606
Ferro-cerium and other pyrophoric alloys in all forms; articles of combustible materials as specified in 
note 2 to Chapter 36
3701 20
Instant print film
3701 91
For colour photography (polychrome)
3702
Photographic film in rolls, sensitised, unexposed, of any material other than paper, paperboard or 
textiles; instant print film in rolls, sensitised, unexposed
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
84/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
3703
Photographic paper, paperboard and textiles, sensitised, unexposed
3705
Photographic plates and film, exposed and developed (excl. products made of paper, paperboard or 
textiles, cinematographic film and ready-to-use printing plates)
3706
Cinematographic film, exposed and developed, whether or not incorporating soundtrack or consisting 
only of soundtrack
3801 20
Colloidal or semi-colloidal graphite
3806 20
Salts of rosin, of resin acids or of derivatives of rosin or resin acids (excl. salts of rosin adducts)
3807
Wood tar; wood tar oils; wood creosote; wood naphtha; vegetable pitch; brewer’s pitch and similar 
preparations based on rosin, resin acids or vegetable pitch (excl. burgundy pitch, yellow pitch, stearin 
pitch, fatty acid pitch, fatty tar and glycerin pitch)
3809
Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the dyeing or fixing of dyestuffs and other products and 
preparations such as dressings and mordants of a kind used in the textile, paper, leather or like 
industries, n.e.s.
3810
Pickling preparations for metal surfaces; fluxes and other auxiliary preparations for soldering, brazing 
or welding; soldering, brazing or welding pastes and powders consisting of metal and other materials; 
preparations of a kind used as coatings or cores for welding electrodes or rods
3811
Anti-knock preparations, oxidation inhibitors, gum inhibitors, viscosity improvers, anti-corrosive 
preparations and other prepared additives, for mineral oils, incl. gasoline, or for other liquids used for 
the same purposes as mineral oils
3812
Prepared rubber accelerators; compound plasticisers for rubber or plastics, not elsewhere specified or 
included; anti-oxidising preparations and other compound stabilisers for rubber or plastics
3813
Preparations and charges for fire-extinguishers; charged fire-extinguishing grenades (excl. full or empty 
fire-extinguishing devices, whether or not portable, unmixed chemically undefined products with 
fire-extinguishing properties in other forms)
3814
Organic composite solvents and thinners, n.e.s.; prepared paint or varnish removers (excl. nail varnish 
remover)
3815
Reaction initiators, reaction accelerators and catalytic preparations, n.e.s. (excl. rubber accelerators)
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
85/110
CN code
Description
3816
Refractory cements, mortars, concretes and similar compositions, including dolomite ramming mix, 
other than products of heading 3801
3817
Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed alkylnaphthalenes produced by the alkylation of benzene and 
naphthalene (excl. mixed isomers of cyclic hydrocarbons)
3819
Hydraulic brake fluids and other prepared liquids for hydraulic transmission not containing petroleum 
oil or bituminous mineral oil, or containing < 70 % petroleum oil or bituminous mineral oil by weight
3820
Anti-freezing preparations and prepared de-icing fluids (excl. prepared additives for mineral oils or 
other liquids used for the same purposes as mineral oils)
3823 13
Tall oil fatty acids, industrial
3824
Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores; chemical products and preparations for the chemical or 
allied industries, incl. mixtures of natural products, n.e.s.
3825 90
Residual products of the chemical or allied industries, n.e.s. (excl. waste)
3826
Biodiesel and mixtures thereof, not containing or containing < 70 % by weight of petroleum oils or oils 
obtained from bituminous minerals
3827 90
Mixtures containing halogenated derivatives of methane, ethane or propane, not else specified in other 
sub-headings pertaining to Heading 3827
3901 40
Ethylene-alpha-olefin copolymers, having a specific gravity of < 0,94, in primary forms
3902
Polymers of propylene or of other olefins, in primary forms
3903
Polymers of styrene, in primary forms
3904
Polymers of vinyl chloride or of other halogenated olefins, in primary forms
3905
Polymers of vinyl acetate or of other vinyl esters, in primary forms; other vinyl polymers, in primary 
forms
3906
Acrylic polymers, in primary forms
3907 29
Polyethers, in primary forms (excl. polyacetals, bis(polyoxythylene) methylphosphonate and goods of 
3002)
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
86/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
3907 40
Polycarbonates, in primary forms
3907 70
Poly“lactic acid”, in primary forms
3907 91
Unsaturated polyallyl esters and other polyesters, in primary forms (excl. polycarbonates, alkyd resins, 
poly“ethylene terephthalate” and poly“lactic acid”)
3908
Polyamides, in primary forms
3909
Amino-resins, phenolic resins and polyurethanes, in primary forms
3910
Silicones in primary forms
3911
Petroleum resins, coumarone-indene resins, polyterpenes, polysulphides, polysulphones and other 
polymers and prepolymers produced by chemical synthesis, not else specified, in primary forms
3912
Cellulose and its chemical derivatives, not elsewhere specified or included, in primary forms
3915 20
Waste, parings and scrap, of polymers of styrene
3917
Tubes, pipes and hoses, and fittings therefor (for example joints, elbows, flanges), of plastics
3920
Plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of non-cellular plastics, not reinforced, laminated, supported or 
similarly combined with other materials, without backing, unworked or merely surface-worked or 
merely cut into squares or rectangles
3921
Plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of plastics, reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined 
with other materials, or of cellular plastic, unworked or merely surface-worked or merely cut into 
squares or rectangles
3922 90
Bidets, lavatory pans, flushing cisterns and similar sanitary ware, of plastics (excl. baths, shower-baths, 
sinks, washbasins, lavatory seats and covers)
3925
Builders’ ware of plastics, not elsewhere specified or included
4002
Synthetic rubber and factice derived from oils, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or strip; mixtures of 
natural rubber, balata, gutta-percha, guayule, chicle or similar types of natural rubber with synthetic 
rubber or factice, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or strip
4005
Compounded rubber, unvulcanised, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or strip
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
87/110
CN code
Description
4006 10
“Camel-back” strips of unvulcanised rubber, for retreading rubber tyres
4008 21
Plates, sheets and strip, of non-cellular rubber
4009 12
Tubes, pipes and hoses, of vulcanised rubber (excl. hard rubber), not reinforced or otherwise combined 
with other materials, with fittings
4009 41
Tubes, pipes and hoses, of vulcanised rubber (excl. hard rubber), reinforced or otherwise combined with 
materials other than metal or textile materials, without fittings
4010
Conveyor or transmission belts or belting, of vulcanised rubber
4011 20
New pneumatic tyres, of rubber, of a kind used for buses and lorries
4011 80
New pneumatic tyres, of rubber, of a kind used on construction, mining or industrial handling vehicles 
and machines
4012
Retreaded or used pneumatic tyres of rubber; solid or cushion tyres, tyre treads and tyre flaps, of rubber
4016 93
Gaskets, washers and other seals, of vulcanised rubber (excl. hard rubber and those of cellular rubber)
4407
Wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, whether or not planed, sanded or end-jointed, of 
a thickness of > 6 mm
4408 10
Sheets for veneering, incl. those obtained by slicing laminated wood, for coniferous plywood or for 
other similar laminated coniferous wood and other coniferous wood, sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled, 
whether or not planed, sanded, spliced or end-jointed, of a thickness of ≤ 6 mm
4411 13
Medium density fibreboard “mdf” of wood, of a thickness > 5 mm but ≤ 9 mm
4411 94
Fibreboard of wood or other ligneous materials, whether or not agglomerated with resins or other 
organic bonding agents, of a density of ≤ 0,5 g/cm3 (excl. medium density fibreboard “mdf”; particle 
board, whether or not bonded with one or more sheets of fibreboard; laminated wood with a layer of 
plywood; cellular wood panels of which both sides are fibreboard; paperboard; identifiable furniture 
components)
4412
Plywood, veneered panel and similar laminated wood
4416
Casks, barrels, vats, tubs and other coopers’ products parts thereof, of wood, incl. staves
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
88/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
4418 40
Wooden shuttering for concrete constructional work (excl. plywood boarding)
4418 60
Posts and beams, of wood
4418 79
Flooring panels, assembled, of wood other than bamboo (excl. multilayer panels and panels for mosaic 
floors)
4503
Articles of natural cork
4504
Agglomerated cork (with or without a binding substance) and articles of agglomerated cork
4701
Mechanical wood pulp, not chemically treated
4703
Chemical wood pulp, soda or sulphate (excl. dissolving grades)
4704
Chemical wood pulp, sulphite (excl. dissolving grades)
4705
Wood pulp obtained by a combination of mechanical and chemical pulping processes
4706
Pulps of fibres derived from recovered (waste and scrap) paper or paperboard or of other fibrous 
cellulosic material
4707
Recovered (waste and scrap) paper or paperboard
4802 20
Paper and paperboard of a kind used as a base for photosensitive, heat-sensitive or electrosensitive 
paper and paperboard, uncoated, in rolls or in square or rectangular sheets, of any size
4802 40
Wallpaper base, uncoated
4802 58
Uncoated paper and paperboard, of a kind used for writing, printing or other graphic purposes, and 
non-perforated punchcards and punch-tape paper, in rolls or in square or rectangular sheets, of any 
size, not containing fibres obtained by a mechanical or chemi-mechanical process or of which ≤ 10 % 
by weight of the total fibre content consists of such fibres, weighing > 150 g/m2, n.e.s.
4802 61
Uncoated paper and paperboard, of a kind used for writing, printing or other graphic purposes, and 
non-perforated punchcards and punch-tape paper, in rolls of any size, of which > 10 % by weight of the 
total fibre content consists of fibres obtained by a mechanical or chemi-mechanical process, n.e.s.
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
89/110
CN code
Description
4804
Uncoated kraft paper and paperboard, in rolls of a width > 36 cm or in square or rectangular sheets 
with one side > 36 cm and the other side > 15 cm in the unfolded state (excl. goods of heading 4802 or 
4803)
4805
Other paper and paperboard, uncoated, in rolls of a width > 36 cm or in square or rectangular sheets 
with one side > 36 cm and the other side > 15 cm in the unfolded state, not worked other than as 
specified in note 3 to this Chapter, n.e.s.
4806
Vegetable parchment, greaseproof papers, tracing papers and glassine and other glazed transparent or 
translucent papers, in rolls of a width > 36 cm or in square or rectangular sheets with one side > 36 cm 
and the other side > 15 cm in the unfolded state
4807
Composite paper and paperboard “made by sticking flat layers of paper or paperboard together with an 
adhesive”, not surface-coated or impregnated, whether or not internally reinforced, in rolls of a width > 
36 cm or in square or rectangular sheets with one side > 36 cm and the other side > 15 cm in the 
unfolded state
4808
Corrugated paper and paperboard “with or without glued flat surface sheets”, creped, crinkled, 
embossed or perforated, in rolls of a width > 36 cm or in square or rectangular sheets with one side > 
36 cm and the other side > 15 cm in the unfolded state (excl. goods of heading 4803)
4809
Carbon paper, self-copy paper and other copying or transfer papers, incl. coated or impregnated paper 
for duplicator stencils or offset plates, whether or not printed, in rolls of a width > 36 cm or in square 
or rectangular sheets with one side > 36 cm and the other side > 15 cm in the unfolded state
4810
Paper and paperboard, coated on one or both sides with kaolin “china clay” or other inorganic 
substances, with or without a binder, and with no other coating, whether or not surface-coloured, 
surface-decorated or printed, in rolls or in square or rectangular sheets, of any size (excl. all other coated 
papers and paperboards)
4811
Paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and webs of cellulose fibres, coated, impregnated, covered, 
surface-coloured, surface-decorated or printed, in rolls or in square or rectangular sheets, of any size, 
other than goods of heading 4803, 4809 and 4810
4814 90
Wallpaper and similar wallcoverings of paper, and window transparencies of paper (excl. wallcoverings 
of paper, consisting of paper coated or covered, on the face side, with a grained, embossed, coloured or 
design-printed or otherwise decorated layer of plastics)
4819 20
Folding cartons, boxes and cases, of non-corrugated paper or paperboard
4822
Bobbins, spools, cops and similar supports of paper pulp, paper or paperboard, whether or not 
perforated or hardened
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
90/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
4823
Paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and webs of cellulose fibres, in strips or rolls of a width ≤ 36 cm, 
in rectangular or square sheets of which no side > 36 cm in the unfolded state, or cut to shape other 
than rectangular or square, and articles of paper pulp, paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding or webs or 
cellulose fibres, n.e.s.
4906
Plans and drawings for architectural, engineering, industrial, commercial, topographical or similar 
purposes, being originals drawn by hand; handwritten texts; photographic reproductions on sensitised 
paper and carbon copies of the foregoing
5105
Wool and fine or coarse animal hair, carded or combed, incl. combed wool in fragments
5106
Carded wool yarn (excl. that put up for retail sale)
5107
Yarn of combed wool (excl. that put up for retail sale)
5112
Woven fabrics of combed wool or of combed fine animal hair (excl. fabrics for technical purposes of 
heading 5911)
5205
Cotton yarn other than sewing thread, containing ≥ 85 % cotton by weight (excl. that put up for retail 
sale)
5206 42
Multiple “folded” or cabled cotton yarn containing predominantly, but < 85 % cotton by weight, of 
combed fibres and with a linear density of 232,56 decitex to < 714,29 decitex “> mn 14 to mn 43” per 
single yarn (excl. sewing thread and yarn put up for retail sale)
5209 11
Plain woven fabrics of cotton, containing ≥ 85 % cotton by weight and weighing > 200 g/m2, 
unbleached
5211
Woven fabrics of cotton, containing predominantly, but < 85 % cotton by weight, mixed principally or 
solely with man-made fibres and weighing > 200 g/m2
5308
Yarn of other vegetable textile fibres; paper yarn
5402 63
Multiple “folded” or cabled filament yarn of polypropylene, incl. monofilament of < 67 decitex (excl. 
sewing thread, yarn put up for retail sale and textured yarn)
5403
Artificial filament yarn, incl. artificial monofilament of < 67 decitex (excl. sewing thread and yarn put 
up for retail sale)
5404
Synthetic monofilament of ≥ 67 decitex and with a cross sectional dimension of ≤ 1 mm; strip and the 
like, e.g. artificial straw, of synthetic textile material, with an apparent width of ≤ 5 mm
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
91/110
CN code
Description
5407 30
Woven fabrics of synthetic filament yarn, incl. monofilament of ≥ 67 decitex and with a cross sectional 
dimension of ≤ 1 mm, consisting of layers of parallel textile yarns superimposed on each other at acute 
or right angles, the layers being bonded at the intersections of the yarns by an adhesive or by thermal 
bonding
5501
Synthetic filament tow as specified in note 1 to Chapter 55
5502
Artificial filament tow as specified in note 1 to Chapter 55
5503
Synthetic staple fibres, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning
5504 90
Artificial staple fibres, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning (excl. those of viscose 
rayon)
5506
Synthetic staple fibres, carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning
5507
Artificial staple fibres, carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning
5512 21
Woven fabrics containing ≥ 85 % acrylic or modacrylic staple fibres by weight, unbleached or bleached
5512 99
Woven fabrics containing ≥ 85 % synthetic staple fibres by weight, dyed, made of yarn of different 
colours or printed (excl. those of acrylic, modacrylic or polyester staple fibres)
5516
Woven fabrics of artificial staple fibres
5601 29
wadding of textile materials and articles thereof (excl. of cotton or man-made fibres; sanitary towels and 
tampons, napkins and napkin liners for babies and similar sanitary articles, wadding and articles 
thereof, impregnated or covered with medicated substances or put up for retail for medical, surgical, 
dental or veterinary purposes, or impregnated, coated or covered with perfumes, make-up, soaps, 
cleansing agents, etc.)
5601 30
textile flock and dust and mill neps
5604
Textile-covered rubber thread and cord; textile yarn, strip and the like of heading 5404 and 5405, 
impregnated, coated, covered or sheathed with rubber or plastics (excl. imitation catgut, thread and cord 
with fish-hook attachments or otherwise put up as fishing line)
5605
Metallised yarn, whether or not gimped, being textile yarn, or strip or the like of heading 5404 or 5405, 
of textile fibres, combined with metal in the form of thread, strip or powder or covered with metal (excl. 
yarns manufactured from a mixture of textile fibres and metal fibres, with anti-static properties; yarns 
reinforced with metal wire; articles with the character of trimmings)
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
92/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
5607 41
Binder or baler twine, of polyethylene or polypropylene
5801 27
Warp pile fabrics, of cotton (excl. terry towelling and similar woven terry fabrics, tufted textile fabrics 
and narrow woven fabrics of heading 5806)
5803
Gauze (excl. narrow woven fabrics of heading 5806)
5806 40
Narrow fabrics consisting of warp without weft assembled by means of an adhesive “bolducs”, with 
a width of ≤ 30 cm
5901
Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous substances, of a kind used for the outer covers of books, 
the manufacture of boxes and articles of cardboard or the like; tracing cloth; prepared painting canvas; 
buckram and similar stiffened textile fabrics of a kind used for hat foundations (excl. plastic-coated 
textile fabrics)
5905
Textile wallcoverings
5908
Textile wicks, woven, plaited or knitted, for lamps, stoves, lighters, candles or the like; incandescent gas 
mantles and tubular knitted gas-mantle fabric for incandescent gas mantles, whether or not 
impregnated (excl. wax-covered wicks of the taper variety, fuses and detonating fuses, wicks in the form 
of textile yarn and glass-fibre wicks)
5910
Transmission or conveyor belts or belting, of textile material, whether or not impregnated, coated, 
covered or laminated with plastics, or reinforced with metal or other material (excl. those of a thickness 
of < 3 mm and of indeterminate length or cut to length only, and those impregnated, coated, covered or 
laminated with rubber or made of yarn or cord impregnated or coated with rubber)
5911 10
Textile fabrics, felt and felt-lined woven fabrics, coated, covered or laminated with rubber, leather or 
other material, of a kind used for card clothing, and similar fabrics of a kind used for other technical 
purposes, incl. narrow fabrics made of velvet impregnated with rubber, for covering weaving spindles 
“weaving beams”
5911 31
Textile fabrics and felts, endless or fitted with linking devices, of a kind used in papermaking or similar 
machines, e.g. for paper pulp or asbestos-cement, weighing < 650 g/m2
5911 32
Textile fabrics and felts, endless or fitted with linking devices, of a kind used in papermaking or similar 
machines, e.g. for paper pulp or asbestos-cement, weighing ≥ 650 g/m2
5911 40
Straining cloth of a kind used in oil-presses or for similar technical purposes, incl. that of human hair
6001 99
Pile fabrics, knitted or crocheted (excl. cotton or man-made fibres and “long pile” fabrics)
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
93/110
CN code
Description
6003
Knitted or crocheted fabrics, of a width ≤ 30 cm (excl. those containing by weight ≥ 5 % of elastomeric 
yarn or rubber thread, and pile fabrics, incl. “long pile”, looped pile fabrics, labels, badges and similar 
articles, and knitted or crocheted fabrics, impregnated, coated, covered or laminated)
6005 36
Unbleached or bleached warp knit fabrics of synthetic fibres “incl. those made on galloon knitting 
machines”, of a width of > 30 cm (excl. those containing by weight ≥ 5 % of elastomeric yarn or rubber 
thread, and pile fabrics, incl. “long pile”, looped pile fabrics, labels, badges and similar articles, and 
knitted or crocheted fabrics, impregnated, coated, covered or laminated)
6005 44
Printed warp knit fabrics of artificial fibres “incl. those made on galloon knitting machines”, of a width 
of > 30 cm (excl. those containing by weight ≥ 5 % of elastomeric yarn or rubber thread, and pile 
fabrics, incl. “long pile”, looped pile fabrics, labels, badges and similar articles, and knitted or crocheted 
fabrics, impregnated, coated, covered or laminated)
6006 10
Fabrics, knitted or crocheted, of a width of > 30 cm, of wool or fine animal hair (excl. warp knit fabrics 
“incl. those made on galloon knitting machines”, those containing by weight ≥ 5 % of elastomeric yarn 
or rubber thread, and pile fabrics, incl. “long pile”, looped pile fabrics, labels, badges and similar articles, 
and knitted or crocheted fabrics, impregnated, coated, covered or laminated)
6309
Worn clothing and clothing accessories, blankets and travelling rugs, household linen and articles for 
interior furnishing, of all types of textile materials, incl. all types of footwear and headgear, showing 
signs of appreciable wear and presented in bulk or in bales, sacks or similar packings (excl. carpets, 
other floor coverings and tapestries)
6802 92
Calcareous stone, in any form (excl. marble, travertine and alabaster, tiles, cubes and similar articles of 
subheading 6802 10, imitation jewellery, clocks, lamps and lighting fittings and parts thereof, original 
sculptures and statuary, setts, curbstones and flagstones)
6804 23
Millstones, grindstones, grinding wheels and the like, without frameworks, for sharpening, polishing, 
trueing or cutting, of natural stone (excl. of agglomerated natural abrasives or ceramics, perfumed 
pumice stones, hand sharpening or polishing stones, and grinding wheels etc. specifically for dental drill 
engines)
6806
Slag-wool, rock-wool and similar mineral wools; exfoliated vermiculite, expanded clays, foamed slag 
and similar expanded mineral materials; mixtures and articles of heat-insulating, sound-insulating or 
soundabsorbing mineral materials, other than those of heading 6811 or 6812 or of Chapter 69
6807
Articles of asphalt or of similar materials, e.g. petroleum bitumen or coal tar pitch
6809 19
Boards, sheets, panels, tiles and similar articles, of plaster or compositions based on plaster (excl. 
ornamented, faced or reinforced with paper or paperboard only, and with plaster agglomerated articles 
for heat-insulation, sound-insulation or sound absorption)
6810 91
Prefabricated structural components for building or civil engineering of cement, concrete or artificial 
stone, whether or not reinforced
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
94/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
6811
Articles of asbestos-cement, cellulose fibre-cement or the like
6813
Friction material and articles thereof, e.g., sheets, rolls, strips, segments, discs, washers, pads, not 
mounted, for brakes, clutches or the like, with a basis of asbestos, other mineral substances or cellulose, 
whether or not combined with textile or other materials (excl. mounted friction material)
6814
Worked mica and articles of mica, including agglomerated or reconstituted mica, whether or not on 
a support of paper, paperboard or other materials
6901
Bricks, blocks, tiles and other ceramic goods of siliceous fossil meals, e.g. kieselguhr, tripolite or 
diatomite, or of similar siliceous earths
6904 10
Building bricks (excl. those of siliceous fossil meals or similar siliceous earths, and refractory bricks of 
heading 6902)
6905
Roofing tiles, chimney pots, cowls, chimney liners, architectural ornaments and other ceramic 
constructional goods
6906 00
Ceramic pipes, conduits, guttering and pipe fittings (excl. of siliceous fossil meals or similar siliceous 
earths, refractory ceramic goods, chimney liners, pipes specifically manufactured for laboratories, 
insulating tubing and fittings and other piping for electrotechnical purposes)
6907 22
Ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles, of a water absorption coefficient by weight > 0,5 % but ≤ 
10 % (excl. mosaic cubes and finishing ceramics)
6907 40
Finishing ceramics
6909 90
Ceramic troughs, tubs and similar receptacles of a kind used in agriculture; ceramic pots, jars and 
similar articles of a kind used for the conveyance or packing of goods (excl. general-purpose storage 
vessels for laboratories, containers for shops and household articles)
7002
Glass in balls (other than microspheres of heading 7018), rods or tubes, unworked
7003
Cast glass and rolled glass, in sheets or profiles, whether or not having an absorbent, reflecting or 
non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked
7004
Sheets of glass, drawn or blown, whether or not having an absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer, 
but not otherwise worked
7005
Float glass and surface ground or polished glass, in sheets, whether or not having an absorbent, 
reflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
95/110
CN code
Description
7007
Safety glass, consisting of toughened (tempered), or laminated glass
7011 10
Glass envelopes, incl. bulbs and tubes, open, and glass parts thereof, without fittings, for electric lighting
72
Iron and steel
7301
Sheet piling of iron or steel, whether or not drilled, punched or made from assembled elements; welded 
angles, shapes and sections, of iron or steel
7302
Railway or tramway track construction material of iron or steel, the following: rails, check-rails and rack 
rails, switch blades, crossing frogs, point rods and other crossing pieces, sleepers “cross-ties”, fish-plates, 
chairs, chair wedges, sole plates “base plates”, rail clips, bedplates, ties and other material specialised for 
jointing or fixing rails
7303
Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of cast iron
7304
Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, seamless, of iron (other than cast iron) or steel
7305
Tubes and pipes, n.e.s. (for example, welded, riveted or similarly closed), having circular cross-sections, 
the external diameter of which exceeds 406,4 mm, of iron or steel
7306
Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles n.e.s. (for example, open seam or welded, riveted or similarly closed), 
of iron or steel
7307
Tube or pipe fittings (for example couplings, elbows, sleeves), of iron or steel
7308
Structures and parts of structures (for example bridges and bridge-sections, lock-gates, towers, lattice 
masts, roofs, roofing frameworks, doors and windows and their frames and thresholds for doors, 
shutters, balustrades, pillars and columns), of iron or steel; plates, rods, angles, shapes, sections, tubes 
and the like, prepared for use in structures, of iron or steel (excl. prefabricated buildings of heading 
9406
7309
Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers for any material (other than compressed or liquefied gas), 
of iron or steel, of a capacity exceeding 300 l, whether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted with 
mechanical or thermal equipment
7310
Tanks, casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar containers, of iron or steel, for any material “other than 
compressed or liquefied gas”, of a capacity of ≤ 300 l, not fitted with mechanical or thermal equipment, 
whether or not lined or heat-insulated, n.e.s.
7311
Containers of iron or steel, for compressed or liquefied gas (excl. containers specifically constructed or 
equipped for one or more types of transport)
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
96/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
7314 12
Endless bands of stainless steel wire, for machinery
7318 24
Cotters and cotter pins, of iron or steel
7320
Springs and leaves for spring, of iron or steel
7322 90
Air heaters and hot-air distributors, incl. distributors which can also distribute fresh or conditioned air, 
non-electrically heated, incorporating a motor-driven fan or blower, and parts thereof, of iron or steel
7324 29
Baths of steel sheet
7407
Copper bars, rods and profiles
7408
Copper wire
7409
Copper plates, sheets and strip, of a thickness exceeding 0,15 mm
7411
Copper tubes and pipes
7412
Copper tube or pipe fittings (for example couplings, elbows, sleeves)
7413
Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like, of copper (not electrically insulated)
7415 21
Washers, “incl. spring washers and spring lock washers”, of copper
7505
Nickel bars, rods, profiles and wire
7506
Nickel plates, sheets, strip and foil
7507
Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings “e.g., couplings, elbows, sleeves”, of nickel
7508
Other articles of nickel
7605
Aluminium wire
7606
Aluminium plates, sheets and strip, of a thickness exceeding 0,2 mm
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
97/110
CN code
Description
7607 20
Aluminium foil, backed, of a thickness (excl. any backing) of ≤ 0,2 mm (excl. stamping foils of heading 
3212, and foil made up as christmas tree decorating material)
7608
Aluminium tubes and pipes
7609
Aluminium tube or pipe fittings (for example couplings, elbows, sleeves)
7610
Structures and parts of structures “e.g., bridges and bridge-sections, towers, lattice masts, pillars and 
columns, roofs, roofing frameworks, doors and windows and their frames and thresholds for doors, 
shutters, balustrades”, of aluminium (excl. prefabricated buildings of heading 9406); plates, rods, 
profiles, tubes and the like, prepared for use in structures, of aluminium
7611
Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, of aluminium, for any material (other than compressed or 
liquefied gas), of a capacity of > 300 l, not fitted with mechanical or thermal equipment, whether or not 
lined or heat-insulated (excl. containers specifically constructed or equipped for one or more types of 
transport)
7612
Casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar containers, incl. rigid or collapsible tubular containers, of 
aluminium, for any material (other than compressed or liquefied gas), of a capacity of ≤ 300 l, not fitted 
with mechanical or thermal equipment, whether or not lined or heat-insulated, n.e.s.
7613
Aluminium containers for compressed or liquefied gas
7616 10
Nails, tacks, staples (other than those of heading 8305), screws, bolts, nuts, screw hooks, rivets, cotters, 
cotter pins, washers and similar articles
7804
Lead plates, sheets, strip and foil; lead powders and flakes
7905
Zinc plates, sheets, strip and foil
8001
Unwrought tin
8003
Tin bars, rods, profiles and wire
8007
Articles of tin
8101 10
Tungsten powders
8102
Molybdenum and articles thereof, including waste and scrap
8105 90
Articles of cobalt
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
98/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
8109
Zirconium and articles thereof, including waste and scrap
8111
Manganese and articles thereof, including waste and scrap
8202 20
Bandsaw blades of base metal
8207
Interchangeable tools, for hand tools, whether or not power-operated, or for machine tools (for example 
for pressing, stamping, punching, tapping, threading, drilling, boring, broaching, milling, turning or 
screw driving), including dies for drawing or extruding metal, and rock-drilling or earth-boring tools
8208 10
Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for mechanical appliances – for metalworking
8208 20
Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for mechanical appliances – for wood-working
8208 30
Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for mechanical appliances – used by the food industry
8208 90
Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for mechanical appliances – other
8301 20
Locks used for motor vehicles, of base metal
8301 70
Keys presented separately
8302 30
Other mountings, fittings and similar articles suitable for motor vehicles
8307
Flexible tubing of base metal, with or without fittings
8309
Stoppers, caps and lids, incl. crown corks, screw caps and pouring stoppers, capsules for bottles, 
threaded bungs, bung covers, seals and other packing accessories, of base metal
8414 10
Vacuum pumps
8414 90
Air or vacuum pumps, air or other gas compressors and fans; ventilating or recycling hoods 
incorporating a fan, whether or not fitted with filters; gas-tight biological safety cabinets, whether or not 
fitted with filters – Parts
8417
Industrial or laboratory furnaces and ovens, including incinerators, non-electric
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
99/110
CN code
Description
8419 40
Distilling or rectifying plant
8419 50
Heat-exchange units (excl. those used with boilers)
8419 60
Machinery for liquefying air or other gases
8419 89
Machinery, plant or laboratory equipment, whether or not electrically heated, for the treatment of 
materials by a process involving a change of temperature such as heating, cooking, roasting, sterilising, 
pasteurising, steaming, evaporating, vaporising, condensing or cooling, n.e.s. (excl. machinery used for 
domestic purposes and furnaces, ovens and other equipment of heading 8514)
8419 90
Parts of machinery, plant and laboratory equipment, whether or not electrically heated, for the 
treatment of materials by a process involving a change of temperature, and of non-electric 
instantaneous and storage water heaters, n.e.s.
8451 10
Dry-cleaning machines
8451 29
Drying machines – Other
8451 30
Ironing machines and presses (including fusing presses)
8451 90
Machinery (other than machines of heading 8450) for washing, cleaning, wringing, drying, ironing, 
pressing (including fusing presses), bleaching, dyeing, dressing, finishing, coating or impregnating 
textile yarns, fabrics or made-up textile articles and machines for applying the paste to the base fabric or 
other support used in the manufacture of floor coverings such as linoleum; machines for reeling, 
unreeling, folding, cutting or pinking textile fabrics – Parts
8456
Machine tools for working any material by removal of material, by laser or other light or photon beam, 
ultrasonic, electro-discharge, electro-chemical, electron beam, ionic-beam or plasma arc processes; 
water-jet cutting machines
8459
Machine tools, incl. way-type unit head machines, for drilling, boring, milling, threading or tapping 
(excl. lathes and turning centres of heading 8458, gear cutting machines of heading 8461 and 
hand-operated machines)
8460
Machine tools for deburring, sharpening, grinding, honing, lapping, polishing or otherwise finishing 
metal or cermets by means of grinding stones, abrasives or polishing products (excl. gear cutting, gear 
grinding or gear finishing machines of heading 8461 and machines for working in the hand)
8461
Machine tools for planing, shaping, slotting, broaching, gear cutting, gear grinding or gear finishing, 
sawing, cutting-off and other machine tools working by removing metal, or cermets, not elsewhere 
specified or included
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
100/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
8462
Machine tools (including presses) for working metal by forging, hammering or die forging (excluding 
rolling mills); machine tools (including presses, slitting lines and cut-to-length lines) for working metal 
by bending, folding, straightening, flattening, shearing, punching, notching or nibbling (excluding 
draw-benches); presses for working metal or metal carbides, not specified in previous headings
8463
Machine tools for working metal, sintered metal carbides or cermets, without removing material (excl. 
forging, bending, folding, straightening and flattening presses, shearing machines, punching or notching 
machines, presses and machines for working in the hand)
8464
Machine tools for working stone, ceramics, concrete, asbestos-cement or like mineral materials or for 
cold-working glass (excl. machines for working in the hand)
8465
Machine tools (including machines for nailing, stapling, glueing or otherwise assembling) for working 
wood, cork, bone, hard rubber, hard plastics or similar hard materials
8470
Calculating machines and pocket-size data-recording, reproducing and displaying machines with 
calculating functions; accounting machines, postage-franking machines, ticket-issuing machines and 
similar machines, incorporating a calculating device, cash registers
8472
Other office machines (for example, hectograph or stencil duplicating machines, addressing machines, 
automatic banknote dispensers, coin-sorting machines, coin -counting or -wrapping machines, 
sharpening machines, perforating or stapling machines)
8473
Parts and accessories (other than covers, carrying cases and the like) suitable for use solely or principally 
with machines of headings 8470 to 8472
8478
Machinery for preparing or making up tobacco, not specified or included elsewhere in this Chapter
8485
Machines for additive manufacturing
8486
Machines and apparatus of a kind used solely or principally for the manufacture of semiconductor 
boules or wafers, semiconductor devices, electronic integrated circuits or flat panel displays; machines 
and apparatus specified in note 11(C) to Chapter 84; parts and accessories, n.e.s.
8487
Machinery parts, not containing electrical connectors, insulators, coils, contacts or other electrical 
features, not specified or included elsewhere in Chapter 84
8506
Primary cells and primary batteries; parts thereof
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
101/110
CN code
Description
8512
Electrical lighting or signalling equipment (excl. lamps of heading 8539), windscreen wipers, defrosters 
and demisters, of a kind used for cycles or motor vehicles; parts thereof
8513
Portable electric lamps designed to function by their own source of energy, e.g. dry batteries, 
accumulators and magnetos; parts thereof
8515
Electric (including electrically heated gas), laser or other light or photon beam, ultrasonic, electron 
beam, magnetic pulse or plasma arc soldering, brazing or welding machines and apparatus, whether or 
not capable of cutting; electric machines and apparatus for hot spraying of metals, or cermets; parts 
thereof
8517
Telephone sets, including smartphones and other telephones for cellular networks or for other wireless 
networks; other apparatus for the transmission or reception of voice, images or other data, including 
apparatus for communication in a wired or wireless network (such as a local or wide area network), 
other than transmission or reception apparatus of heading 8443, 8525, 8527 or 8528
8518
Microphones and stands therefor; loudspeakers, whether or not mounted in their enclosures; 
headphones and earphones, whether or not combined with a microphone, and sets consisting of 
a microphone and one or more loudspeakers; audio-frequency electric amplifiers; electric sound 
amplifier sets
8519
Sound recording or sound reproducing apparatus
8521
Video recording or reproducing apparatus, whether or not incorporating a video tuner
8522
Parts and accessories suitable for use solely or principally with the apparatus of heading 8519 or 8521
8523
Discs, tapes, solid-state non-volatile storage devices, “smart cards” and other media for the recording of 
sound or of other phenomena, whether or not recorded, including matrices and masters for the 
production of discs, but excluding products of Chapter 37
8524
Flat panel display modules, whether or not incorporating touch-sensitive screens
8525
Transmission apparatus for radio-broadcasting or television, whether or not incorporating reception 
apparatus or sound recording or reproducing apparatus; television cameras, digital cameras and video 
camera recorders
8526
Radar apparatus, radio navigational aid apparatus and radio remote control apparatus
8527
Reception apparatus for radio-broadcasting, whether or not combined, in the same housing, with sound 
recording or reproducing apparatus or a clock
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
102/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
8528
Monitors and projectors, not incorporating television reception apparatus; reception apparatus for 
television, whether or not incorporating radio-broadcast receivers or sound or video recording or 
reproducing apparatus
8530
Electrical signalling, safety or traffic control equipment for railways, tramways, roads, inland waterways, 
parking facilities, port installations or airfields (excl. mechanical or electromechanical equipment of 
heading 8608); parts thereof
8531
Electric sound or visual signalling apparatus (for example, bells, sirens, indicator panels, burglar or fire 
alarms), other than those of heading 8512 or 8530
8532
Electrical capacitors, fixed, variable or adjustable (pre-set)
8533
Electrical resistors (including rheostats and potentiometers), other than heating resistors
8534
Printed circuits
8536
Electrical apparatus for switching or protecting electrical circuits, or for making connections to or in 
electrical circuits (for example, switches, relays, fuses, surge suppressors, plugs, sockets, lamp holders 
and other connectors, junction boxes), for a voltage not exceeding 1 000 V; connectors for optical 
fibres, optical fibre bundles or cables
8540
Thermionic, cold cathode or photo-cathode valves and tubes, e.g. vacuum or vapour or gas filled valves 
and tubes, mercury arc rectifying valves and tubes, cathode ray tubes and television camera tubes; parts 
thereof
8541
Semiconductor devices (for example, diodes, transistors, semiconductor-based transducers); 
photosensitive semiconductor devices, including photovoltaic cells whether or not assembled in 
modules or made up into panels; light-emitting diodes (LED), whether or not assembled with other 
light-emitting diodes (LED); mounted piezo-electric crystals
8543
Electrical machines and apparatus, having individual functions, not specified or included elsewhere in 
this Chapter
8546
Electrical insulators of any material
8549
Electrical and electronic waste and scrap
8602
Rail locomotives (excl. those powered from an external source of electricity or by accumulators); 
locomotive tenders
8604
Railway or tramway maintenance or service vehicles, whether or not self-propelled (for example, 
workshops, cranes, ballast tampers, trackliners, testing coaches and track inspection vehicles)
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
103/110
CN code
Description
8606
Railway or tramway goods vans and wagons (excluding self-propelled and luggage vans and post office 
coaches)
8607
Parts of railway or tramway locomotives or rolling stock
8608
Railway or tramway track fixtures and fittings (excl. sleepers of wood, concrete or steel, sections of track 
and other track fixtures not yet assembled and railway or tramway track construction material); 
mechanical, incl. electromechanical, signalling, safety or traffic control equipment for railways, 
tramways, roads, inland waterways, parking facilities, port installations or airfields; parts of the 
foregoing
8609
Containers, incl. containers for the transport of fluids, specially designed and equipped for carriage by 
one or more modes of transport
8701 21
Road tractors for semi-trailers – With only compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine 
(diesel or semi-diesel)
8701 22
Road tractors for semi-trailers – With both compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine 
(diesel or semi-diesel) and electric motor as motors for propulsion
8701 23
Road tractors for semi-trailers – With both spark-ignition internal combustion piston engine and 
electric motor as motors for propulsion
8701 24
Road tractors for semi-trailers – With only electric motor for propulsion
8701 29
Road tractors for semi-trailers – With only spark-ignition internal combustion piston engine as motors 
for propulsion
8701 30
Track-laying tractors (excluding pedestrian-controlled)
8703 10
Vehicles for the transport of < 10 persons on snow; golf cars and similar vehicles
Ex 8703 23
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with only spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston engine of 
a cylinder capacity > 1 900 cm3 but ≤ 3 000 cm3, having a vertical distance between the underside of 
a car chassis and the road (“ground clearance”) equal to or above 165 mm (excluding ambulances)
Ex 8703 24
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with only spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston engine of 
a cylinder capacity > 3 000 cm3, having a vertical distance between the underside of a car chassis and 
the road (“ground clearance”) equal to or above 165 mm (excluding ambulances)
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
104/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
Ex 8703 32
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with only diesel engine of a cylinder capacity > 1 900 cm3 but ≤ 2 500 cm3, 
having a vertical distance between the underside of a car chassis and the road (“ground clearance”) equal 
to or above 165 mm (excluding ambulances)
Ex 8703 33
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with only diesel engine of a cylinder capacity > 2 500 cm3, having a vertical 
distance between the underside of a car chassis and the road (“ground clearance”) equal to or above 
165 mm (excluding ambulances)
Ex 8703 40
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with both spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston engine and 
electric motor as motors for propulsion, having a vertical distance between the underside of a car 
chassis and the road (“ground clearance”) equal to or above 165 mm (excl. plug-in hybrids)
Ex 8703 50
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with both diesel engine and electric motor as motors for propulsion, having 
a vertical distance between the underside of a car chassis and the road (“ground clearance”) equal to or 
above 165 mm (excl. plug-in hybrids)
Ex 8703 60
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with both spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston engine and 
electric motor as motors for propulsion, capable of being charged by plugging to external source of 
electric power, having a vertical distance between the underside of a car chassis and the road (“ground 
clearance”) equal to or above 165 mm
Ex 8703 70
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with both diesel engine and electric motor as motors for propulsion, capable of 
being charged by plugging to external source of electric power, having a vertical distance between the 
underside of a car chassis and the road (“ground clearance”) equal to or above 165 mm
Ex 8703 80
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with only electric motor for propulsion, having a vertical distance between the 
underside of a car chassis and the road (“ground clearance”) equal to or above 165 mm
8703 90
Motor cars and other vehicles principally designed for the transport of < 10 persons, incl. station 
wagons and racing cars, with engines other than internal combustion piston engine or electric motor
Ex 8704
Motor vehicles for the transport of goods, incl. chassis with engine and cab, excluding vehicles of CN 
codes 8704 21 91 and 8704 21 99 with engines of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1 900 cm3
8705
Special purpose motor vehicles (other than those principally designed for the transport of persons or 
goods), e.g. breakdown lorries, crane lorries, fire fighting vehicles, concrete-mixer lorries, road sweeper 
lorries, spraying lorries, mobile workshops and mobile radiological units
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
105/110
CN code
Description
8708 99
Parts and accessories, for tractors, motor vehicles for the transport of ten or more persons, motor cars 
and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of persons, motor vehicles for the 
transport of goods and special purpose motor vehicles, n.e.s.
8709
Works trucks, self-propelled, not fitted with lifting or handling equipment, of the type used in factories, 
warehouses, dock areas or airports for short distance transport of goods; tractors of the type used on 
railway station platforms; parts of the foregoing vehicles, n.e.s.
8716
Trailers and semi-trailers; other vehicles, not mechanically propelled (excl. railway and tramway 
vehicles); parts thereof, n.e.s.
8903
Yachts and other vessels for pleasure or sports; rowing boats and canoes
8904
Tugs and pusher craft
8905
Light-vessels, fire-floats, dredgers, floating cranes, and other vessels the navigability of which is 
subsidiary to their main function; floating docks, floating or submersible drilling or production 
platforms
9001 10
Optical fibres, optical fibre bundles and cables (excl. made up of individually sheathed fibres of heading 
8544)
9002 11
Objective lenses for cameras, projectors or photographic enlargers or reducers
9002 19
Objective lenses (excl. for cameras, projectors or photographic enlargers or reducers)
9005
Binoculars, monoculars, other optical telescopes, and mountings therefor; other astronomical 
instruments and mountings therefor (excl. instruments for radio-astronomy and other instruments or 
apparatus specified elsewhere)
9007
Cinematographic cameras and projectors, whether or not incorporating sound recording or 
reproducing apparatus (excl. video equipment)
9010
Apparatus and equipment for photographic or cinematographic laboratories, not elsewhere specified in 
Chapter 90; negatoscopes; projection screens
9013
Lasers, other than laser diodes; other optical appliances and instruments, not specified or included 
elsewhere in Chapter 90
9014
Direction finding compasses; other navigational instruments and appliances (excl. radio navigational 
equipment); parts thereof
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
106/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
9015
Surveying, incl. photogrammetrical surveying, hydrographic, oceanographic, hydrological, 
meteorological or geophysical instruments and appliances (excl. compasses); rangefinders
9024
Machines and appliances for testing the hardness, strength, compressibility, elasticity or other 
mechanical properties of materials (for example, metals, wood, textiles, paper, plastics); parts thereof
9025 90
Parts and accessories for hydrometers, areometers and similar floating instruments, thermometers, 
pyrometers, barometers, hygrometers and psychrometers, n.e.s.
9026
Instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking the flow, level, pressure or other variables of 
liquids or gases (for example, flow meters, level gauges, manometers, heat meters), excluding 
instruments and apparatus of heading 9014, 9015, 9028 or 9032
9027
Instruments and apparatus for physical or chemical analysis, (for example polarimeters, refractometers, 
spectrometers, gas or smoke analysis apparatus); instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking 
viscosity, porosity, expansion, surface tension or the like; instruments and apparatus for measuring or 
checking quantities of heat, sound or light, (including exposure meters); microtomes
9029
Revolution counters, production counters, taximeters, milometers, pedometers and the like (excl. gas, 
liquid and electricity meters); speed indicators and tachometers (excl. those of heading 9014 and 9015); 
stroboscopes
9030
Oscilloscopes, spectrum analysers and other instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking 
electrical quantities (excluding meters of heading 9028); instruments and apparatus for measuring or 
detecting alpha, beta, gamma, x-ray, cosmic or other ionising radiations
9031
Measuring or checking instruments, appliances and machines not elsewhere specified in Chapter 90; 
profile projectors
9032 81
Other automatic regulating or controlling instruments and apparatus – Hydraulic or pneumatic – Other
9401 10
Seats for aircraft
9401 20
Seats for motor vehicles
9403 30
Wooden furniture of a kind used in offices
9406
Prefabricated buildings
9606
Buttons, press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and press studs, button moulds and other parts of these articles; 
button blanks (excl. cuff links)
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
107/110
CN code
Description
9608 91
Pen nibs and nib points
9612
Typewriter or similar ribbons, inked or otherwise prepared for giving impressions, whether or not on 
spools or in cartridges; ink-pads, whether or not inked, with or without boxes
Ex 98
Complete industrial plants, except plants for the production of food and drinks, pharmaceuticals, 
medicines and medical devices
’;
(6) Annex XIX is replaced by the following:
‘ANNEX XIX
List of goods and technology as referred to in Article 1bb(2) on the prohibition of transit via Belarus
CN code
Description
2710 19 21
Jet fuel, kerosene type
2710 19 29
Medium oils and preparations, of petroleum or bituminous minerals
3811
Anti-knock preparations, oxidation inhibitors, gum inhibitors, viscosity improvers, anti-corrosive 
preparations and other prepared additives, for mineral oils, incl. gasoline, or for other liquids used for 
the same purposes as mineral oils
3815 12
Supported catalysts with precious metal or a precious-metal compound as the active substance, not else 
specified
7219 21
Flat-rolled products of stainless steel, of a width of 600 mm or more, not further worked than 
hot-rolled, not in coils, of a thickness of exceeding 10 mm
7225 40
Flat-rolled products of other alloy steel other than stainless, of a width of 600 mm or more, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, not in coils (excluding products of silicon-electrical steel)
7304 29
Casing and tubing, seamless, of iron or steel, of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas (excluding products 
of cast iron)
7311 00
Containers of iron or steel, for compressed or liquefied gas (excluding containers specifically 
constructed or equipped for one or more types of transport)
8456 30
Machine tools for working any material by removal of material, operated by electro-discharge processes
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
108/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
CN code
Description
8460
Machine tools for deburring, sharpening, grinding, honing, lapping, polishing or otherwise finishing 
metal or cermets by means of grinding stones, abrasives or polishing products, other than gear cutting, 
gear grinding or gear finishing machines of heading 8461
8515 19
Brazing or soldering machines (excluding soldering irons and guns)
8543 30
Machines and apparatus for electroplating, electrolysis or electrophoresis
8705 10
Crane lorries
8708 99
Parts and accessories of the motor vehicles of headings 8701 to 8705 (tractors, motor vehicles for the 
transport of ten or more persons, motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the 
transport of persons, motor vehicles for the transport of goods and special purpose motor vehicles), not 
else specified
9024
Machines and appliances for testing the hardness, strength, compressibility, elasticity or other 
mechanical properties of materials, for example metals, wood, textiles, paper or plastics
’;
(7) in Annex XXVII, the following code is inserted between CN code 7408 and CN code 7604:
‘
CN code
Name of the good
7601
Unwrought aluminium
’;
(8) in Annex XXX, the heading is replaced by the following:
‘List of common high priority goods and technology referred to in Articles 1e, 1f, 8g and 8ga’;
(9) the following annexes are added:
‘ANNEX XXXI
List of goods referred to in Article 8ga
CN code
Description
8502 20
Generating sets with spark-ignition internal combustion piston engines
8536 50
Other switches
OJ L, 24.2.2025
EN
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
109/110
ANNEX XXXII
List of software referred to in Article 1gd
“Software” used in oil and gas exploration, namely:
— “Software” for reservoir exploration and calculation
— “Software” for calculation, processing and analysis of seismic data
— “Software” for geological visual inspections as well as for respective characterisation/modelling/visualisation/calculation
— Drilling “software”, planning “software” for drilling processes, “software” for trajectory of drilling processes
— “Software” for inertial navigation systems for drilling
— Real-time well monitoring “software”
— Observation and safeguarding “software” in oil and gas production.’.
EN
OJ L, 24.2.2025
110/110
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/392/oj
