COUNCIL DECISION 2012/331/CFSP 
of 25 June 2012 
extending the mandate of the European Union Special Representative in Afghanistan 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on European Union and in 
particular Article 28, Article 31(2) and Article 33 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of 
the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
On 22 March 2010, the Council adopted Decision 
2010/168/CFSP ( 1 ) appointing Mr Vygaudas UŠACKAS 
as the European Union Special Representative (EUSR) 
in Afghanistan. The EUSR’s mandate is to expire on 
30 June 2012. 
(2) 
The mandate of the EUSR should be extended for a 
further period of 12 months. 
(3) 
The EUSR will implement the mandate in the context of 
a situation which may deteriorate and could impede the 
achievement of the objectives of the Union’s external 
action as set out in Article 21 of the Treaty, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: 
Article 1 
European Union Special Representative 
The mandate of Mr Vygaudas UŠACKAS as the EUSR in 
Afghanistan is hereby extended until 30 June 2013. The 
mandate of the EUSR may be terminated earlier, if the 
Council so decides, upon a proposal from the High Represen­
tative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (HR). 
Article 2 
Policy objectives 
The EUSR shall represent the Union and promote Union policy 
objectives in Afghanistan, in close coordination with Member 
States’ representatives in Afghanistan. More specifically, the 
EUSR shall: 
(a) contribute to the implementation of the EU-Afghanistan 
Joint Declaration and lead the implementation of the EU 
Action Plan on Afghanistan and Pakistan, in so far as it 
concerns Afghanistan, thereby working with Member 
States’ representatives in Afghanistan; 
(b) support Union-Afghanistan political dialogue; 
(c) support the pivotal role played by the United Nations (UN) 
in Afghanistan with particular emphasis on contributing 
to better coordinated international assistance, thereby 
promoting the implementation of the London, Kabul and 
Bonn Conference Communiqués, as well as relevant UN 
Resolutions. 
Article 3 
Mandate 
In order to fulfil the mandate, the EUSR shall, in close 
cooperation with Member States’ representatives in Afghanistan: 
(a) promote the views of the Union on the political process and 
developments in Afghanistan; 
(b) maintain close contact with, and support the development 
of, 
relevant 
Afghan 
institutions, 
in 
particular 
the 
Government and the Parliament as well as the local auth­
orities. Contact should also be maintained with other 
Afghan political groups and other relevant actors in Afghan­
istan; 
(c) maintain close contact with relevant international and 
regional stakeholders in Afghanistan, notably the Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General of the UN and the 
Senior Civilian Representative of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organisation and other key partners and organisations; 
(d) advise on the progress achieved in meeting the objectives of 
the EU-Afghanistan Joint Declaration, of the EU Action Plan 
for Afghanistan and Pakistan, in so far as it concerns 
Afghanistan, and of the Kabul and Bonn and other 
relevant international Conferences, in particular in the 
following areas: 
— civilian capacity building, notably at sub-national level, 
— good governance and the establishment of institutions 
necessary for the existence of the rule of law, in 
particular an independent judiciary, 
— electoral reforms, 
— security sector reforms, including the strengthening of 
judicial institutions, the national army and the police 
force, 
— promotion of growth, namely through agriculture and 
rural development, 
— respect for Afghanistan’s international human rights 
obligations, including respect for the rights of persons 
belonging to minorities and the rights of women and 
children, 
— respect of democratic principles and the rule of law,
EN 
L 165/68 
Official Journal of the European Union 
26.6.2012 
( 1 ) OJ L 75, 23.3.2010, p. 22.
— fostering participation by women in public adminis­
tration and civil society, 
— respect for Afghanistan’s international obligations, 
including 
cooperation 
in 
international 
efforts 
to 
combat terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, trafficking in 
human beings and proliferation of arms and weapons 
of mass destruction and related materials, 
— facilitation of humanitarian assistance and the orderly 
return of refugees and internally displaced persons, and 
— enhancing the effectiveness of Union presence and 
activities in Afghanistan and contributing to the formu­
lation of the regular six-monthly implementation reports 
on the EU Action Plan, as requested by the Council; 
(e) actively participate in local coordination fora such as the 
Joint Coordination and Monitoring Board, while keeping 
non-participating 
Member 
States 
fully 
informed 
of 
decisions taken at these levels; 
(f) advise on the participation and the positions of the Union 
in international conferences with regard to Afghanistan and 
contribute to promoting regional cooperation; 
(g) contribute to the implementation of the Union’s human 
rights policy and the EU Guidelines on Human Rights, in 
particular with regard to women and children in conflict- 
affected areas, especially by monitoring and addressing 
developments in this regard. 
Article 4 
Implementation of the mandate 
1. 
The EUSR shall be responsible for the implementation of 
the mandate, acting under the authority of the HR. 
2. 
The Political and Security Committee (PSC) shall maintain 
a privileged link with the EUSR and shall be the EUSR’s primary 
point of contact with the Council. The PSC shall provide the 
EUSR with strategic guidance and political direction within the 
framework of the mandate, without prejudice to the powers of 
the HR. 
3. 
The EUSR shall work in close coordination with the 
European External Action Service (EEAS) and its competent 
departments. 
Article 5 
Financing 
1. 
The financial reference amount intended to cover the 
expenditure related to the mandate of the EUSR in the period 
from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013 shall be EUR 6 380 000. 
2. 
The expenditure shall be managed in accordance with the 
procedures and rules applicable to the general budget of the 
Union. 
3. 
The management of the expenditure shall be subject to a 
contract between the EUSR and the Commission. The EUSR 
shall be accountable to the Commission for all expenditure. 
Article 6 
Constitution and composition of the team 
1. 
Within the limits of the EUSR’s mandate and the 
corresponding financial means made available, the EUSR shall 
be responsible for constituting a team. The team shall include 
the expertise on specific policy issues as required by the 
mandate. The EUSR shall promptly and regularly inform the 
Council and the Commission of the composition of the team. 
2. 
Member States, institutions of the Union and the EEAS 
may propose the secondment of personnel to work with the 
EUSR. The salary of such seconded personnel shall be covered 
by the Member State, the institution of the Union concerned or 
the EEAS, respectively. Experts seconded by Member States to 
the institutions of the Union or the EEAS may also be posted to 
work with the EUSR. Internationally contracted personnel shall 
have the nationality of a Member State. 
3. 
All seconded personnel shall remain under the adminis­
trative authority of the sending Member State, the sending insti­
tution of the Union or the EEAS and shall carry out their duties 
and act in the interest of the mandate of the EUSR. 
Article 7 
Privileges and immunities of the EUSR and the staff of the 
EUSR 
The privileges, immunities and further guarantees necessary for 
the completion and smooth functioning of the mission of the 
EUSR and the members of the EUSR’s staff shall be agreed with 
the host party or parties, as appropriate. Member States and the 
Commission shall grant all necessary support to such effect. 
Article 8 
Security of EU classified information 
The EUSR and the members of his team shall respect the 
security principles and minimum standards established by 
Council Decision 2011/292/EU of 31 March 2011 on the 
security rules for protecting EU classified information ( 1 ). 
Article 9 
Access to information and logistical support 
1. 
Member States, the Commission and the General Secre­
tariat of the Council shall ensure that the EUSR is given access 
to any relevant information. 
2. 
Union delegations and/or Member States, as appropriate, 
shall provide logistical support in the region.
EN 
26.6.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 165/69 
( 1 ) OJ L 141, 27.5.2011, p. 17.
Article 10 
Security 
In accordance with the Union’s policy on the security of 
personnel deployed outside the Union in an operational 
capacity under Title V of the Treaty, the EUSR shall take all 
reasonably practicable measures, in conformity with the EUSR’s 
mandate and the security situation in the geographical area of 
responsibility, for the security of all personnel under the EUSR’s 
direct authority, notably by: 
(a) establishing a mission-specific security plan based on 
guidance 
from 
the 
EEAS, 
including 
mission-specific 
physical, organisational and procedural security measures, 
governing management of the secure movement of 
personnel to, and within, the mission area, as well as 
management 
of 
security 
incidents 
and 
a 
mission 
contingency and evacuation plan; 
(b) ensuring that all personnel deployed outside the Union are 
covered by high risk insurance as required by the conditions 
in the mission area; 
(c) ensuring that all members of the EUSR’s team to be 
deployed outside the Union, including locally contracted 
personnel, have received appropriate security training 
before or upon arriving in the mission area, based on the 
risk ratings assigned to the mission area by the EEAS; 
(d) ensuring that all agreed recommendations made following 
regular security assessments are implemented and providing 
the HR, the Council and the Commission with written 
reports on their implementation and on other security 
issues within the framework of the progress and mandate 
implementation reports. 
Article 11 
Reporting 
The EUSR shall regularly provide the HR and the PSC with oral 
and written reports. The EUSR shall also report to Council 
working parties as necessary. Regular written reports shall be 
circulated through the COREU network. Upon recommendation 
of the HR or the PSC, the EUSR shall provide the Foreign 
Affairs Council with reports. 
Article 12 
Coordination 
1. 
The EUSR shall contribute to the unity, consistency and 
effectiveness of the Union’s action and shall help ensure that all 
Union instruments and Member States’ actions are engaged 
consistently, to attain the Union’s policy objectives. The 
activities of the EUSR shall be coordinated with those of the 
Commission, as well as with those of the EUSR for Central Asia 
and with the Union’s Delegation in Pakistan. The EUSR shall 
provide Member States’ missions and Union delegations with 
regular briefings. 
2. 
In the field, close liaison shall be maintained with the 
Heads of the Union delegations and Member States’ Heads of 
Mission. They shall make every effort to assist the EUSR in the 
implementation of the mandate. The EUSR shall provide the 
Head of the EU Police Mission in Afghanistan (EUPOL Afghan­
istan) with local political guidance. The EUSR and the Civilian 
Operation Commander shall consult each other as required. The 
EUSR shall also liaise with other international and regional 
actors in the field. 
Article 13 
Review 
The implementation of this Decision and its consistency with 
other contributions from the Union to the region shall be kept 
under regular review. The EUSR shall present the HR, the 
Council and the Commission with a progress report by the 
end of December 2012 and a comprehensive mandate imple­
mentation report at the end of the mandate. 
Article 14 
Entry into force 
This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. 
Done at Luxembourg, 25 June 2012. 
For the Council 
The President 
C. ASHTON
EN 
L 165/70 
Official Journal of the European Union 
26.6.2012
