DIRECTIVES 
DIRECTIVE 2012/34/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 21 November 2012 
establishing a single European railway area 
(recast) 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE 
EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, and in particular Article 91 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, 
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national 
parliaments, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and 
Social Committee ( 1 ), 
Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the 
Regions ( 2 ), 
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure ( 3 ), 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Council Directive 91/440/EEC of 29 July 1991 on the 
development of the Community's railways ( 4 ), Council 
Directive 95/18/EC of 19 June 1995 on the licensing 
of railway undertakings ( 5 ) and Directive 2001/14/EC of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 
26 February 2001 on the allocation of railway infra­
structure capacity and the levying of charges for the 
use of railway infrastructure ( 6 ) have been substantially 
amended. Since further amendments are necessary, 
those Directives should be recast and merged into a 
single act in the interest of clarity. 
(2) 
Greater integration of the Union transport sector is an 
essential element of the completion of the internal 
market, and the railways are a vital part of the Union 
transport sector moving towards achieving sustainable 
mobility. 
(3) 
The efficiency of the railway system should be improved, 
in order to integrate it into a competitive market, whilst 
taking account of the special features of the railways. 
(4) 
Member States with an important share of rail traffic 
with third countries which have the same railway 
gauge which is different from the main rail network 
within the Union should be able to have specific oper­
ational rules ensuring both coordination between their 
infrastructure managers and those of the third countries 
concerned and fair competition between railway under­
takings. 
(5) 
In order to render railway transport efficient and 
competitive with other modes of transport, Member 
States should ensure that railway undertakings have the 
status 
of 
independent 
operators 
behaving 
in 
a 
commercial manner and adapting to market needs. 
(6) 
In order to ensure the future development and efficient 
operation of the railway system, a distinction should be 
made between the provision of transport services and the 
operation of infrastructure. Given that situation, it is 
necessary for these two activities to be managed 
separately and to have separate accounts. Provided that 
those separation requirements are met, that no conflicts 
of interest arise and that the confidentiality of commer­
cially sensitive information is guaranteed, infrastructure 
managers should have the possibility to outsource 
specific administrative tasks, such as the collection of 
charges, to entities other than those active in railway 
transport services markets. 
(7) 
The principle of freedom to provide services should be 
applied to the railway sector, taking into account that 
sector's specific characteristics. 
(8) 
In order to boost competition in railway service 
management in terms of improved comfort and the 
services provided to users, Member States should retain 
general responsibility for the development of the appro­
priate railway infrastructure.
EN 
L 343/32 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ C 132, 3.5.2011, p. 99. 
( 2 ) OJ C 104, 2.4.2011, p. 53. 
( 3 ) Position of the European Parliament of 16 November 2011 (not yet 
published in the Official Journal) and Position of the Council at first 
reading of 8 March 2012 (OJ C 108 E, 14.4.2012, p. 8). Position of 
the European Parliament of 3 July 2012 and decision of the Council 
of 29 October 2012. 
( 4 ) OJ L 237, 24.8.1991, p. 25. 
( 5 ) OJ L 143, 27.6.1995, p. 70. 
( 6 ) OJ L 75, 15.3.2001, p. 29.
(9) 
In the absence of common rules on allocation of infra­
structure costs, Member States should, after consulting 
the infrastructure manager, lay down rules providing 
for railway undertakings to pay for the use of railway 
infrastructure. Such rules should not discriminate 
between railway undertakings. 
(10) 
Member 
States 
should 
ensure 
that 
infrastructure 
managers and existing publicly owned or controlled 
railway transport undertakings are given a sound 
financial structure, having due regard to Union rules on 
State aid. This is without prejudice to the competence of 
the Member States regarding infrastructure planning and 
financing. 
(11) 
Applicants should be given the opportunity to express 
their views on the content of the business plan as far as 
the use, provision and development of the infrastructure 
are concerned. This should not necessarily entail full 
disclosure of the business plan developed by the infra­
structure manager. 
(12) 
Since private branch lines and sidings, such as sidings 
and lines in private industrial facilities, are not part of 
the railway infrastructure as defined by this Directive, 
managers of those infrastructures should not be subject 
to the obligations imposed on infrastructure managers 
under 
this 
Directive. 
However, 
non-discriminatory 
access to branch lines and sidings should be guaranteed, 
irrespective of their ownership, where they are needed to 
get access to services facilities which are essential for the 
provision of transport services and where serving or 
potentially serving more than one final customer. 
(13) 
Member States should be able to decide to cover infra­
structure expenditure through means other than direct 
State funding, such as public private partnership and 
private sector financing. 
(14) 
The profit and loss account of an infrastructure manager 
should be balanced over a reasonable time period, which, 
once established, might be exceeded under exceptional 
circumstances, such as a major and sudden deterioration 
in the economic situation in a Member State affecting 
substantially the level of traffic on its infrastructure or 
the level of available public financing. In accordance with 
international accounting rules, the amount of loans to 
finance infrastructure projects does not appear in such 
profit and loss accounts. 
(15) 
An efficient freight sector, especially across borders, 
requires action to open up the market. 
(16) 
In order to ensure that access rights to railway infra­
structure are applied throughout the Union in a 
uniform and non-discriminatory manner, it is appro­
priate to introduce a licence for railway undertakings. 
(17) 
In the case of journeys with intermediate stops, new 
market entrants should be authorised to pick up and 
set down passengers along the route in order to ensure 
that such operations are economically viable and to avoid 
placing potential competitors at a disadvantage compared 
to existing operators. 
(18) 
The introduction of new, open-access, international 
passenger services with intermediate stops should not 
be used to open up the market for domestic passenger 
services, but should merely focus on stops that are 
ancillary to the international route. The principal 
purpose of the new services should be to carry 
passengers travelling on an international journey. When 
assessing whether that is the service's principal purpose, 
criteria such as the proportion of turnover, and of 
volume, derived from transport of domestic or inter­
national passengers, and the length of the service 
should be taken into account. The assessment of the 
service's principal purpose should be carried out by the 
respective national regulatory body at the request of an 
interested party. 
(19) 
Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on 
public passenger transport services by rail and by road ( 1 ) 
authorises Member States and local authorities to award 
public service contracts which may contain exclusive 
rights to operate certain services. It is therefore 
necessary to ensure that the provisions of that Regulation 
are consistent with the principle of opening up inter­
national passenger services to competition. 
(20) 
Opening 
up 
international 
passenger 
services 
to 
competition may have implications for the organisation 
and financing of rail passenger services provided under a 
public service contract. Member States should have the 
option of limiting the right of access to the market where 
that right would compromise the economic equilibrium 
of those public service contracts and where approval is 
given by the relevant regulatory body on the basis of an 
objective economic analysis, following a request from the 
competent authorities that awarded the public service 
contract. 
(21) 
The assessment of whether the economic equilibrium of 
the public service contract has been compromised should 
take into account predetermined criteria such as the
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/33 
( 1 ) OJ L 315, 3.12.2007, p. 1.
impact on the profitability of any services which are 
included in a public service contract, including the 
resulting impacts on the net cost to the competent 
public authority that awarded the contract, passenger 
demand, ticket pricing, ticketing arrangements, location 
and number of stops on both sides of the border and 
timing and frequency of the proposed new service. In 
accordance with such an assessment and the decision 
of the relevant regulatory body, Member States should 
be able to authorise, modify or deny the right of access 
for the international passenger service sought, including 
the levying of a charge on the operator of a new inter­
national passenger service, in line with the economic 
analysis and in accordance with Union law and the prin­
ciples of equality and non-discrimination. 
(22) 
In order to contribute to the operation of passenger 
services on lines fulfilling a public service obligation, 
Member States should be able to authorise the authorities 
responsible for those services to impose a levy on 
passenger services which fall within the jurisdiction of 
those authorities. That levy should contribute to the 
financing of public service obligations laid down in 
public service contracts. 
(23) 
The regulatory body should function in a way which 
avoids any conflict of interests and any possible 
involvement in the award of the public service contract 
under consideration. The powers of the regulatory body 
should be extended to allow for an assessment of the 
purpose of an international service and, where appro­
priate, of the potential economic impact on existing 
public service contracts. 
(24) 
In order to invest in services using specialised infra­
structure, such as high-speed railway lines, applicants 
need legal certainty given the substantial long-term 
investment involved. 
(25) 
The regulatory bodies should exchange information and, 
where relevant in individual cases, should coordinate the 
principles and practice of assessing whether the 
economic equilibrium of a public service contract is 
compromised. 
They 
should 
progressively 
develop 
guidelines based on their experience. 
(26) 
In order to ensure fair competition between railway 
undertakings and to guarantee full transparency and the 
non-discriminatory access to and supply of services, a 
distinction should be made between the provision of 
transport services and the operation of service facilities. 
Thus, it is necessary for these two types of activity to be 
managed independently where the operator of the service 
facility belongs to a body or firm which is also active and 
holds a dominant position at national level in at least 
one of the railway transport markets for the carriage of 
goods or passengers for which the facility is used. Such 
independence should not entail the establishment of a 
separate legal entity for service facilities. 
(27) 
Non-discriminatory access to service facilities and the 
supply of rail-related services in these facilities should 
allow railway undertakings to offer better services to 
passengers and freight users. 
(28) 
While Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 13 July 2009 concerning common 
rules for the internal market in electricity ( 1 ) provides for 
the opening of the European electricity market, traction 
current should be supplied to railway undertakings upon 
request in a non-discriminatory manner. When there is 
only one supplier available, the charge imposed for such 
service should be set under uniform charging principles. 
(29) 
In respect of relations with third countries, special 
consideration should be given to the existence of 
reciprocal access for Union railway undertakings to the 
rail market of those third countries and this should be 
facilitated through the cross-border agreements. 
(30) 
In order to ensure dependable and adequate services, it is 
necessary to ensure that, at all times, railway under­
takings meet certain requirements in relation to good 
repute, financial fitness and professional competence. 
(31) 
For the protection of customers and the third parties 
concerned it is essential to ensure that railway under­
takings 
are 
sufficiently 
insured 
against 
liability. 
Coverage of that liability in the event of accidents 
through guarantees provided by banks or other under­
takings should also be allowed, provided that such 
coverage is offered under market conditions, does not 
result in State aid and does not contain elements of 
discrimination against other railway undertakings. 
(32) 
A railway undertaking should also be required to comply 
with national and Union law on the provision of railway 
services, applied in a non-discriminatory manner, which 
are intended to ensure that it can carry on its activity in 
complete safety and with due regard to health, social 
conditions and the rights of workers and consumers on 
specific stretches of track. 
(33) 
The procedures for granting, maintaining and amending 
licences for railway undertakings should be transparent 
and in accordance with the principle of non-discrimi­
nation.
EN 
L 343/34 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 55.
(34) 
To ensure transparency and non-discriminatory access to 
rail infrastructure, and to services in service facilities, for 
all railway undertakings, all the information required to 
use access rights should be published in a network 
statement. The network statement should be published 
in at least two official languages of the Union in line 
with existing international practices. 
(35) 
Appropriate capacity-allocation schemes for rail infra­
structure coupled with competitive operators will result 
in a better balance of transport between modes. 
(36) 
Infrastructure managers should be given incentives, such 
as bonuses for managing directors, to reduce the level of 
access charges and the costs of providing infrastructure. 
(37) 
The obligation of Member States to ensure that the infra­
structure manager performance targets and medium to 
long-term 
incomes 
are 
implemented 
through 
a 
contractual agreement between the competent authority 
and the infrastructure manager should be without 
prejudice to the competence of the Member States 
regarding planning of and financing for railway infra­
structure. 
(38) 
Encouraging optimal use of the railway infrastructure will 
lead to a reduction in the cost of transport to society. 
(39) 
Methods for apportioning costs established by infra­
structure managers should be based on the best 
available understanding of cost causation and should 
apportion costs to the different services offered to 
railway undertakings and, where relevant, to types of 
rail vehicles. 
(40) 
Appropriate charging schemes for rail infrastructure 
coupled with appropriate charging schemes for other 
transport infrastructures and competitive operators 
should result in an optimal balance of different 
transport modes on a sustainable basis. 
(41) 
When levying mark-ups, distinct market segments should 
be defined by the infrastructure manager where the costs 
of providing the transport services, their market prices or 
their requirements for service quality differ considerably. 
(42) 
The charging and capacity-allocation schemes should 
permit equal and non-discriminatory access for all under­
takings and should attempt, as far as possible, to meet 
the needs of all users and traffic types in a fair and non- 
discriminatory manner. Such schemes should allow fair 
competition in the provision of railway services. 
(43) 
Within the framework set out by Member States, 
charging 
and 
capacity-allocation 
schemes 
should 
encourage railway infrastructure managers to optimise 
use of their infrastructure. 
(44) 
Railway undertakings should receive clear and consistent 
economic signals from capacity-allocation schemes and 
from charging schemes which lead them to make rational 
decisions. 
(45) 
Rolling noise caused by brake blocks with cast iron tech­
nology, used on freight wagons, is one of the causes of 
noise emissions that could be reduced with appropriate 
technical solutions. Noise differentiated infrastructure 
charges should primarily address the freight wagons 
that do not fulfil the requirements of Commission 
Decision 2006/66/EC of 23 December 2005 concerning 
the technical specification for interoperability relating to 
the subsystem 'rolling stock — noise' of the trans- 
European conventional rail system ( 1 ). When such differ­
entiation results in a loss of revenue for the infrastructure 
manager, it should be without prejudice to Union rules 
on State aid. 
(46) 
Noise-differentiated 
infrastructure 
charges 
should 
complement other measures to reduce noise produced 
by rail traffic, such as the adoption of technical specifi­
cations for interoperability (TSI) setting maximum levels 
of noise produced by railway vehicles, noise mapping 
and action plans to reduce noise exposure under 
Directive 2002/49/EC of the European Parliament and 
of the Council of 25 June 2002 relating to the 
assessment and management of environmental noise ( 2 ) 
as well as Union and national public funding for the 
retrofitting of rail vehicles and for noise-reduction infra­
structures. 
(47) 
Noise-reduction measures equivalent to those adopted for 
the rail sector should be considered for other modes of 
transport. 
(48) 
In order to accelerate the installation of the European 
Train Control System (ETCS) on board locomotives, 
infrastructure managers should modify the charging 
system through a temporary differentiation for trains 
equipped with ETCS. Such a differentiation should give 
appropriate incentives to equip trains with ETCS. 
(49) 
In order to take into account the need of users, or 
potential users, of railway infrastructure capacity to 
plan their business, and the needs of customers and 
funders, it is important that infrastructure managers 
ensure that infrastructure capacity is allocated in a way 
which reflects the need to maintain and improve service 
reliability levels.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/35 
( 1 ) OJ L 37, 8.2.2006, p. 1. 
( 2 ) OJ L 189, 18.7.2002, p. 12.
(50) 
It is desirable for railway undertakings and the infra­
structure manager to be provided with incentives to 
minimise disruption and improve performance of the 
network. 
(51) 
Member States should have the option of allowing 
purchasers of railway services to enter the capacity-allo­
cation process directly. 
(52) 
It is important to have regard to the business 
requirements of both applicants and the infrastructure 
manager. 
(53) 
It is important to maximise the flexibility available to 
infrastructure managers with regard to the allocation of 
infrastructure capacity, but this should be consistent with 
satisfying the applicant's reasonable requirements. 
(54) 
The capacity-allocation process should prevent the 
imposition of undue constraints on the wishes of other 
undertakings, holding, or intending to hold, rights to use 
the infrastructure, to develop their business. 
(55) 
Capacity allocation and charging schemes may need to 
take account of the fact that different components of the 
rail infrastructure network may have been designed with 
different principal users in mind. 
(56) 
As different users and types of users will frequently have 
a different impact on infrastructure capacity, the needs of 
different services need to be properly balanced. 
(57) 
Services operated under contract to a public authority 
may require special rules to safeguard their attractiveness 
to users. 
(58) 
The charging and capacity-allocation schemes should 
take account of the effects of increasing saturation of 
infrastructure capacity and, ultimately, the scarcity of 
capacity. 
(59) 
The different time-frames for planning traffic types 
should ensure that requests for infrastructure capacity 
which are made after the completion of the process for 
establishing the annual working timetable can be 
satisfied. 
(60) 
To ensure the optimum outcome for railway under­
takings, it is desirable to require an examination of the 
use of infrastructure capacity when the coordination of 
requests for capacity is required to meet the needs of 
users. 
(61) 
In view of their monopolistic position, infrastructure 
managers should be required to examine the available 
infrastructure capacity, and methods of enhancing it 
when the capacity-allocation process is unable to meet 
the requirements of users. 
(62) 
A lack of information about other railway undertakings' 
requests and about the constraints within the system may 
make it difficult for railway undertakings to seek to 
optimise their infrastructure capacity requests. 
(63) 
It is important to ensure better coordination of allocation 
schemes in order to improve the attractiveness of rail for 
traffic which uses the network of more than one infra­
structure manager, in particular for international traffic. 
(64) 
It 
is 
important 
to 
minimise 
the 
distortions 
of 
competition which may arise, either between railway 
infrastructures or transport modes, from significant 
differences in charging principles. 
(65) 
It is desirable to define those components of the infra­
structure service which are essential to enable an 
operator to provide a service and which should be 
provided in return for minimum access charges. 
(66) 
Investment in railway infrastructure is necessary and 
infrastructure charging schemes should provide incentives 
for 
infrastructure 
managers 
to 
make 
appropriate 
investments economically attractive. 
(67) 
To enable the establishment of appropriate and fair levels 
of infrastructure charges, infrastructure managers need to 
record and establish the value of their assets and develop 
a clear understanding of the factors which determine the 
cost of operating the infrastructure. 
(68) 
It is desirable to ensure that account is taken of external 
costs when making transport decisions and that rail 
infrastructure charging can contribute to the internali­
sation of external costs in a coherent and balanced way 
across all modes of transport. 
(69) 
It is important to ensure that charges for domestic and 
international traffic are such as to permit rail to meet the 
needs of the market. Consequently, infrastructure 
charging should be set at the cost that is directly 
incurred as a result of operating the train service. 
(70) 
The overall level of cost recovery through infrastructure 
charges affects the necessary level of government 
contribution. Member States may require different levels 
of overall cost recovery. However, any infrastructure 
charging scheme should allow traffic which can at least 
pay for the additional cost which it imposes to use the 
rail network. 
(71) 
Railway infrastructure is a natural monopoly and it is 
therefore necessary to provide infrastructure managers 
with incentives to reduce costs and to manage their infra­
structure efficiently. 
(72) 
The development of railway transport should be achieved 
by using, inter alia, the Union instruments available, 
without prejudice to priorities already established.
EN 
L 343/36 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
(73) 
Discounts which are granted to railway undertakings 
should relate to actual administrative cost savings 
made, in particular transaction costs savings. Discounts 
may also be granted to promote the efficient use of 
infrastructure. 
(74) 
It is desirable for railway undertakings and the infra­
structure manager to be provided with incentives to 
minimise disruption of the network. 
(75) 
The allocation of capacity is associated with a cost to the 
infrastructure manager, payment for which should be 
required. 
(76) 
The efficient management and fair and non-discrimi­
natory use of rail infrastructure require the establishment 
of a regulatory body that oversees the application of the 
rules set out in this Directive and acts as an appeal body, 
without prejudice to the possibility of judicial review. 
Such a regulatory body should be able to enforce its 
information requests and decisions by means of appro­
priate penalties. 
(77) 
The financing of the regulatory body should guarantee its 
independence and should come either from the State 
budget or from contributions of the sector levied in a 
compulsory way, while respecting the principles of 
fairness, transparency, non-discrimination and propor­
tionality. 
(78) 
Appropriate procedures for appointing staff should 
contribute to guaranteeing the independence of the regu­
latory body, ensuring in particular that the appointment 
of persons in charge of decisions is made by a public 
authority which does not directly exert ownership rights 
over regulated undertakings. Provided that that condition 
is met, such an authority could be, for example, a 
parliament, a President or a Prime Minister. 
(79) 
Specific measures are required to take account of the 
specific geopolitical and geographical situation of 
certain Member States and the particular organisation 
of the railway sector in various Member States while 
ensuring the integrity of the internal market. 
(80) 
In order to take into account the evolution of the rail 
market, the power to adopt acts in accordance with 
Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the 
European Union (TFEU) should be delegated to the 
Commission in respect of the technical amendments to 
the information to be provided by the undertaking 
applying for a licence, to the list of classes of delay, to 
the schedule for the allocation process, and to the 
accounting information to be supplied to the regulatory 
bodies. 
It 
is 
of 
particular 
importance 
that 
the 
Commission carry out appropriate consultations during 
its preparatory work, including at expert level. The 
Commission, when preparing and drawing up delegated 
acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appro­
priate transmission of relevant documents to the 
European Parliament and to the Council. 
(81) 
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implemen­
tation of this Directive, implementing powers should be 
conferred on the Commission. Those powers should be 
exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 
182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules 
and general principles concerning mechanisms for 
control by Member States of the Commission's exercise 
of implementing powers ( 1 ). 
(82) 
Implementing acts related to the principal purpose of rail 
services, the assessment of impact of new international 
services on the economic equilibrium of public service 
contracts, the levies on railway undertakings providing 
passenger services, access to the services to be supplied 
in essential service facilities, the details on the procedure 
to be followed to obtain a licence, the modalities for the 
calculation of direct cost for the application of the 
charging for the cost of noise effects and for the appli­
cation of the differentiation of the infrastructure charge 
to give incentives to equip trains with ETCS and the 
common principles and practices for the regulatory 
bodies decision-making should not be adopted by the 
Commission where the committee established pursuant 
to this Directive delivers no opinion on the draft imple­
menting act presented by the Commission. 
(83) 
Since the objectives of this Directive, namely to foster the 
development of the Union railways, to set out broad 
principles for granting licences to railway undertakings 
and to coordinate arrangements in the Member States 
governing 
the 
allocation of 
railway infrastructure 
capacity and the charges made for the use thereof, 
cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States 
on account of the manifestly international dimension 
of issuing such licences and operating significant 
elements of the railway networks, and of the need to 
ensure fair and non-discriminatory terms for access to 
the infrastructure, and can therefore, by reason of their 
trans-national implications, be better achieved at Union 
level, the Union may adopt measures in accordance with 
the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the 
Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the 
principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, 
this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary to 
achieve those objectives. 
(84) 
The obligation to transpose this Directive into national 
law should be confined to those provisions which 
represent a substantive change as compared with the 
earlier Directives. The obligation to transpose the 
provisions of this Directive, which are substantively 
unchanged as compared with the earlier Directives, 
arises under those Directives.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/37 
( 1 ) OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13.
(85) 
The Member States which have no railway system, and 
no immediate prospect of having one, would be subject 
to a disproportionate and pointless obligation if they had 
to transpose and implement Chapters II and IV of this 
Directive. Therefore, such Member States should be 
exempted from that obligation. 
(86) 
In accordance with the Joint Political Declaration of 
Member States and the Commission of 28 September 
2011 on explanatory documents ( 1 ), Member States 
have undertaken to accompany, in justified cases, the 
notification of their transposition measures with one or 
more documents explaining the relationship between the 
components of a Directive and the corresponding parts 
of national transposition instruments. With regard to this 
Directive, the legislator considers the transmission of 
such documents to be justified. 
(87) 
This Directive should be without prejudice to the time 
limits set out in Part B of Annex IX, within which 
Member States are to comply with the earlier Directives, 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: 
CHAPTER I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Article 1 
Subject-matter and scope 
1. 
This Directive lays down: 
(a) the rules applicable to the management of railway infra­
structure and to rail transport activities of the railway under­
takings established or to be established in a Member State as 
set out in Chapter II; 
(b) the criteria applicable to the issuing, renewal or amendment 
of licences by a Member State intended for railway under­
takings which are or will be established in the Union as set 
out in Chapter III; 
(c) the principles and procedures applicable to the setting and 
collecting of railway infrastructure charges and the allo­
cation of railway infrastructure capacity as set out in 
Chapter IV. 
2. 
This Directive applies to the use of railway infrastructure 
for domestic and international rail services. 
Article 2 
Exclusions from the scope 
1. 
Chapter II shall not apply to railway undertakings which 
only operate urban, suburban or regional services on local and 
regional stand-alone networks for transport services on railway 
infrastructure or on networks intended only for the operation of 
urban or suburban rail services. 
Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, when such a railway 
undertaking is under the direct or indirect control of an under­
taking or another entity performing or integrating rail transport 
services other than urban, suburban or regional services, Articles 
4 and 5 shall apply. Article 6 shall also apply to such a railway 
undertaking with regard to the relationship between the railway 
undertaking and the undertaking or entity which controls it 
directly or indirectly. 
2. 
Member States may exclude the following from the appli­
cation of Chapter III: 
(a) undertakings which only operate rail passenger services on 
local and regional stand-alone railway infrastructure; 
(b) undertakings which only operate urban or suburban rail 
passenger services; 
(c) undertakings which only operate regional rail freight 
services; 
(d) undertakings which only operate freight services on 
privately owned railway infrastructure that exists solely for 
use by the infrastructure owner for its own freight oper­
ations. 
3. 
Member States may exclude the following from the appli­
cation of Articles 7, 8 and 13 and Chapter IV: 
(a) local and regional stand-alone networks for passenger 
services on railway infrastructure; 
(b) networks intended only for the operation of urban or 
suburban rail passenger services; 
(c) regional networks which are used for regional freight 
services solely by a railway undertaking that is not 
covered under paragraph 1 until capacity on that network 
is requested by another applicant; 
(d) privately owned railway infrastructure that exists solely for 
use by the infrastructure owner for its own freight oper­
ations. 
4. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, Member States may 
exclude local and regional railway infrastructures which do 
not have any strategic importance for the functioning of the 
rail market from the application of Article 8(3) and local 
railway infrastructures which do not have any strategic 
importance for the functioning of the rail market from the 
application of Chapter IV. Member States shall notify the 
Commission of their intention to exclude such railway infra­
structures. In accordance with the advisory procedure referred 
to in Article 62(2), the Commission shall decide whether such 
railway infrastructure may be considered to be without any 
strategic importance taking into account the length of railway 
lines concerned, their level of use and the traffic volume poten­
tially impacted.
EN 
L 343/38 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ C 369, 17.12 2011, p. 14.
5. 
Member States may exclude from the application of 
Article 31(5) vehicles operated or intended to be operated 
from and to third countries, running on a network whose 
track gauge is different from the main rail network within the 
Union. 
6. 
Member States may decide time periods and deadlines for 
the schedule for capacity allocation which are different from 
those referred to in Article 43(2), point 2(b) of Annex VI and 
points 3, 4 and 5 of Annex VII if the establishment of inter­
national train paths in cooperation with infrastructure managers 
of third countries on a network whose track gauge is different 
from the main rail network within the Union has a significant 
impact on the schedule for capacity allocation in general. 
7. 
Member States may decide to publish the charging 
framework and charging rules applicable specifically to inter­
national freight services from and to third countries operated 
on a network whose track gauge is different from the main rail 
network within the Union with different instruments and 
deadlines than those provided under Article 29(1) where this 
is required to ensure fair competition. 
8. 
Member States may exclude from the application of 
Chapter IV railway infrastructure, whose track gauge is 
different from the main rail network within the Union, and 
which connects cross-border stations of a Member State to 
the territory of a third country. 
9. 
This Directive shall not apply to undertakings the business 
of which is limited to providing solely shuttle services for road 
vehicles through undersea tunnels or to transport operations in 
the form of shuttle services for road vehicles through such 
tunnels except Article 6(1) and (4) and Articles 10, 11, 12 
and 28. 
10. 
Member States may exclude from the application of 
Chapter II, with the exception of Article 14, and Chapter IV, 
any railway service carried out in transit through the Union. 
11. 
Member States may exclude from the application of 
Article 32(4) trains not equipped with the European Train 
Control System (ETCS) and used for regional passenger 
services which have been placed into service for the first time 
before 1985. 
Article 3 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this Directive, the following definitions 
apply: 
(1) 'railway undertaking' means any public or private under­
taking licensed according to this Directive, the principal 
business of which is to provide services for the transport 
of goods and/or passengers by rail with a requirement that 
the undertaking ensure traction; this also includes under­
takings which provide traction only; 
(2) 'infrastructure manager' 
means 
any 
body 
or 
firm 
responsible in particular for establishing, managing and 
maintaining 
railway 
infrastructure, 
including 
traffic 
management and control-command and signalling; the 
functions of the infrastructure manager on a network or 
part of a network may be allocated to different bodies or 
firms; 
(3) 'railway infrastructure' means the items listed in Annex I; 
(4) 'international freight service' means a transport service 
where the train crosses at least one border of a Member 
State; the train may be joined and/or split and the different 
sections may have different origins and destinations, 
provided that all wagons cross at least one border; 
(5) 'international passenger service' means a passenger service 
where the train crosses at least one border of a Member 
State and where the principal purpose of the service is to 
carry passengers between stations located in different 
Member States; the train may be joined and/or split, and 
the different sections may have different origins and desti­
nations, provided that all carriages cross at least one 
border; 
(6) 'urban and suburban services' means transport services 
whose principal purpose is to meet the transport needs 
of an urban centre or conurbation, including a cross- 
border 
conurbation, 
together 
with 
transport 
needs 
between such a centre or conurbation and surrounding 
areas; 
(7) 'regional services' means transport services whose principal 
purpose is to meet the transport needs of a region, 
including a cross-border region; 
(8) 'transit' means crossing territory of the Union without 
loading or unloading goods, and/or without picking up 
passengers or setting them down in territory of the Union; 
(9) 'alternative route' means another route between the same 
origin and destination where there is substitutability 
between the two routes for the operation of the freight 
or passenger service concerned by the railway undertaking; 
(10) 'viable alternative' means access to another service facility 
which is economically acceptable to the railway under­
taking, and allows it to operate the freight or passenger 
service concerned; 
(11) 'service facility' means the installation, including ground 
area, building and equipment, which has been specially 
arranged, as a whole or in part, to allow the supply of 
one or more services referred to in points 2 to 4 of 
Annex II;
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/39
(12) 'operator of service facility' means any public or private 
entity responsible for managing one or more service 
facilities or supplying one or more services to railway 
undertakings referred to in points 2 to 4 of Annex II; 
(13) 'cross-border agreement' means any agreement between 
two or more Member States or between Member States 
and third countries intended to facilitate the provision of 
cross-border rail services; 
(14) 'licence' means an authorisation issued by a licensing 
authority to an undertaking, by which its capacity to 
provide rail transport services as a railway undertaking is 
recognised; that capacity may be limited to the provision 
of specific types of services; 
(15) 'licensing authority' means the body responsible for 
granting licences within a Member State; 
(16) 'contractual agreement' means an agreement or, mutatis 
mutandis, an arrangement within the framework of admin­
istrative measures; 
(17) 'reasonable profit' means a rate of return on own capital 
that takes account of the risk, including that to revenue, or 
the absence of such risk, incurred by the operator of the 
service facility and is in line with the average rate for the 
sector concerned in recent years; 
(18) 'allocation' means the allocation of railway infrastructure 
capacity by an infrastructure manager; 
(19) 'applicant' means a railway undertaking or an international 
grouping of railway undertakings or other persons or legal 
entities, such as competent authorities under Regulation 
(EC) No 1370/2007 and shippers, freight forwarders and 
combined transport operators, with a public-service or 
commercial interest in procuring infrastructure capacity; 
(20) 'congested infrastructure' means an element of infra­
structure for which demand for infrastructure capacity 
cannot be fully satisfied during certain periods even after 
coordination of the different requests for capacity; 
(21) 'capacity-enhancement plan' means a measure or series of 
measures with a calendar for their implementation which 
aim to alleviate the capacity constraints which led to the 
declaration of an element of infrastructure as 'congested 
infrastructure'; 
(22) 'coordination' means the process through which the infra­
structure manager and applicants will attempt to resolve 
situations in which there are conflicting applications for 
infrastructure capacity; 
(23) 'framework agreement' means a legally binding general 
agreement under public or private law, setting out the 
rights and obligations of an applicant and the infra­
structure manager in relation to the infrastructure 
capacity to be allocated and the charges to be levied 
over a period longer than one working timetable period; 
(24) 'infrastructure capacity' means the potential to schedule 
train paths requested for an element of infrastructure for 
a certain period; 
(25) 'network' means the entire railway infrastructure managed 
by an infrastructure manager; 
(26) 'network statement' means the statement which sets out in 
detail the general rules, deadlines, procedures and criteria 
for charging and capacity-allocation schemes, including 
such other information as is required to enable appli­
cations for infrastructure capacity; 
(27) 'train path' means the infrastructure capacity needed to run 
a train between two places over a given period; 
(28) 'working timetable' means the data defining all planned 
train and rolling-stock movements which will take place 
on the relevant infrastructure during the period for which 
it is in force; 
(29) 'storage siding' means sidings specifically dedicated to 
temporary parking of railway vehicles between two assign­
ments; 
(30) 'heavy maintenance' means work that is not carried out 
routinely as part of day-to-day operations and requires the 
vehicle to be removed from service. 
CHAPTER II 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE UNION RAILWAYS 
SECTION 1 
Management independence 
Article 4 
Independence of railway undertakings and infrastructure 
managers 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that, as regards management, 
administration 
and 
internal 
control 
over 
administrative, 
economic and accounting matters, railway undertakings 
directly or indirectly owned or controlled by Member States 
have independent status in accordance with which they will 
hold, in particular, assets, budgets and accounts which are 
separate from those of the State.
EN 
L 343/40 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
2. 
While respecting the charging and allocation framework 
and the specific rules established by the Member States, the 
infrastructure manager shall be responsible for its own 
management, administration and internal control. 
Article 5 
Management of the railway undertakings according to 
commercial principles 
1. 
Member States shall enable railway undertakings to adjust 
their activities to the market and to manage those activities 
under the responsibility of their management bodies, in the 
interests of providing efficient and appropriate services at the 
lowest possible cost for the quality of service required. 
Railway undertakings shall be managed according to the prin­
ciples which apply to commercial companies, irrespective of 
their ownership. This shall also apply to the public service 
obligations imposed on them by Member States and to public 
service contracts which they conclude with the competent auth­
orities of the State. 
2. 
Railway undertakings shall determine their business plans, 
including their investment and financing programmes. Such 
plans shall be designed to achieve the undertakings' financial 
equilibrium and other technical, commercial and financial 
management objectives; they shall also indicate the means of 
attaining those objectives. 
3. 
With reference to the general policy guidelines issued by 
each Member State and taking into account national plans and 
contracts (which may be multiannual) including investment and 
financing plans, railway undertakings shall, in particular, be free 
to: 
(a) establish their internal organisation, without prejudice to the 
provisions of Articles 7, 29 and 39; 
(b) control the supply and marketing of services and fix the 
pricing thereof; 
(c) take decisions on staff, assets and own procurement; 
(d) expand their market share, develop new technologies and 
new services and adopt any innovative management tech­
niques; 
(e) establish new activities in fields associated with the railway 
business. 
This paragraph is without prejudice to Regulation (EC) No 
1370/2007. 
4. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 3, shareholders of publicly 
owned or controlled railway undertakings shall be able to 
require 
their 
own 
prior 
approval 
for 
major 
business 
management decisions in the same way as shareholders of 
private joint-stock companies under the rules of the company 
law of Member States. The provisions of this Article shall be 
without prejudice to the powers of supervisory bodies under the 
company law of Member States relating to the appointment of 
board members. 
SECTION 2 
Separation of infrastructure management and transport 
operations and of different types of transport operations 
Article 6 
Separation of accounts 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that separate profit and loss 
accounts and balance sheets are kept and published, on the one 
hand, for business relating to the provision of transport services 
by railway undertakings and, on the other, for business relating 
to the management of railway infrastructure. Public funds paid 
to one of these two areas of activity shall not be transferred to 
the other. 
2. 
Member States may also provide that this separation shall 
require the organisation of distinct divisions within a single 
undertaking or that the infrastructure and transport services 
shall be managed by separate entities. 
3. 
Member States shall ensure that separate profit and loss 
accounts and balance sheets are kept and published, on the one 
hand, for business relating to the provision of rail freight 
transport services and, on the other, for activities relating to 
the provision of passenger transport services. Public funds 
paid for activities relating to the provision of transport 
services as public-service remits shall be shown separately in 
accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 
in the relevant accounts and shall not be transferred to activities 
relating to the provision of other transport services or any other 
business. 
4. 
The accounts for the different areas of activity referred to 
in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be kept in a way that allows for 
monitoring of the prohibition on transferring public funds paid 
to one area of activity to another and the monitoring of the use 
of income from infrastructure charges and surpluses from other 
commercial activities. 
Article 7 
Independence of essential functions of an infrastructure 
manager 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that the essential functions 
determining equitable and non-discriminatory access to infra­
structure, are entrusted to bodies or firms that do not them­
selves provide any rail transport services. Regardless of organi­
sational structures, this objective shall be shown to have been 
achieved. 
The essential functions shall be: 
(a) decision-making on train path allocation, including both the 
definition and the assessment of availability and the allo­
cation of individual train paths; and
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/41
(b) decision-making on infrastructure charging, including deter­
mination and collection of the charges, without prejudice to 
Article 29(1). 
Member States may, however, assign to railway undertakings or 
any other body the responsibility for contributing to the devel­
opment of the railway infrastructure, for example through 
investment, maintenance and funding. 
2. 
Where the infrastructure manager, in its legal form, 
organisation or decision-making functions, is not independent 
of any railway undertaking, the functions referred to in Sections 
2 and 3 of Chapter IV shall be performed respectively by a 
charging body and by an allocation body that are independent 
in their legal form, organisation and decision-making from any 
railway undertaking. 
3. 
When the provisions of Sections 2 and 3 of Chapter IV 
refer to the essential functions of an infrastructure manager, 
they shall be understood as applying to the charging body or 
the allocation body for their respective powers. 
SECTION 3 
Improvement of the financial situation 
Article 8 
Financing of the infrastructure manager 
1. 
Member States shall develop their national railway infra­
structure by taking into account, where necessary, the general 
needs of the Union, including the need to cooperate with neigh­
bouring third countries. For that purpose, they shall publish by 
16 December 2014, after consultation with the interested 
parties, an indicative rail infrastructure development strategy 
with a view to meeting future mobility needs in terms of main­
tenance, renewal and development of the infrastructure based 
on sustainable financing of the railway system. That strategy 
shall cover a period of at least five years and be renewable. 
2. 
Having due regard to Articles 93, 107 and 108 TFEU, 
Member States may also provide the infrastructure manager 
with financing consistent with its functions as referred to in 
point (2) of Article 3, the size of the infrastructure and 
financial requirements, in particular in order to cover new 
investments. Member States may decide to finance those 
investments through means other than direct State funding. In 
any case, Member States shall comply with the requirements 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article. 
3. 
Within the framework of general policy determined by the 
Member State concerned and taking into account the strategy 
referred to in paragraph 1 and the financing provided by the 
Member States referred to in paragraph 2, the infrastructure 
manager shall adopt a business plan including investment and 
financial programmes. The plan shall be designed to ensure 
optimal and efficient use, provision and development of the 
infrastructure while ensuring financial balance and providing 
means for these objectives to be achieved. The infrastructure 
manager shall ensure that known applicants and, upon their 
request, potential applicants have access to the relevant 
information and are given the opportunity to express their 
views on the content of the business plan regarding the 
conditions for access and use and the nature, provision and 
development of the infrastructure before its approval by the 
infrastructure manager. 
4. 
Member States shall ensure that, under normal business 
conditions and over a reasonable period which shall not exceed 
a period of five years, the profit and loss account of an infra­
structure manager shall at least balance income from infra­
structure charges, surpluses from other commercial activities, 
non-refundable incomes from private sources and State 
funding, on the one hand, including advance payments from 
the State, where appropriate, and infrastructure expenditure, on 
the other hand. 
Without prejudice to the possible long-term aim of user cover 
of infrastructure costs for all modes of transport on the basis of 
fair, non-discriminatory competition between the various 
modes, where rail transport is able to compete with other 
modes of transport, within the charging framework of Articles 
31 and 32, a Member State may require the infrastructure 
manager to balance his accounts without State funding. 
Article 9 
Transparent debt relief 
1. 
Without prejudice to Union rules on State aid and in 
accordance with Articles 93, 107 and 108 TFEU, Member 
States shall set up appropriate mechanisms to help reduce the 
indebtedness of publicly owned or controlled railway under­
takings to a level which does not impede sound financial 
management and which improves their financial situation. 
2. 
For the purposes referred to in paragraph 1, Member 
States may require a separate debt amortisation unit to be set 
up within the accounting departments of such railway under­
takings. 
The balance sheet of the unit may be charged with all the loans 
raised by the railway undertaking, both to finance investment 
and to cover excess operating expenditure resulting from the 
business of rail transport or from railway infrastructure 
management, until such time as these loans are extinguished. 
Debts arising from subsidiaries' operations shall not be taken 
into account. 
3. 
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply only to debts or interest 
due on such debts incurred by publicly owned or controlled 
railway undertakings by the date of market opening for all or 
part of rail transport services in the Member State concerned 
and in any case by 15 March 2001 or the date of accession to 
the Union for the Member States which joined the Union after 
that date.
EN 
L 343/42 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
SECTION 4 
Access to railway infrastructure and services 
Article 10 
Conditions of access to railway infrastructure 
1. 
Railway undertakings shall be granted, under equitable, 
non-discriminatory and transparent conditions, the right to 
access to the railway infrastructure in all Member States for 
the purpose of operating all types of rail freight services. That 
right shall include access to infrastructure connecting maritime 
and inland ports and other service facilities referred to in point 
2 of Annex II, and to infrastructure serving or potentially 
serving more than one final customer. 
2. 
Railway undertakings shall be granted the right of access 
to railway infrastructure in all Member States for the purpose of 
operating an international passenger service. Railway under­
takings shall, in the course of an international passenger 
service, have the right to pick up passengers at any station 
located along the international route and set them down at 
another, including stations located in the same Member State. 
That right shall include access to infrastructure connecting 
service facilities referred to in point 2 of Annex II. 
3. 
Following the request from the relevant competent auth­
orities or interested railway undertakings, the relevant regulatory 
body or bodies referred to in Article 55 shall determine whether 
the principal purpose of the service is to carry passengers 
between stations located in different Member States. 
4. 
Based on the experience of regulatory bodies, competent 
authorities and railway undertakings and based on the activities 
of the network referred to in Article 57(1), the Commission 
shall adopt by 16 December 2016 measures setting out the 
details of the procedure and criteria to be followed for the 
application of paragraph 3 of this Article. Those implementing 
acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
Article 11 
Limitation of the right of access and of the right to pick up 
and set down passengers 
1. 
Member States may limit the right of access provided for 
in Article 10 on services between a place of departure and a 
destination which are covered by one or more public service 
contracts which are in accordance with Union law. Such limi­
tation shall not have the effect of restricting the right to pick up 
passengers at any station located along the route of an inter­
national service and to set them down at another, including 
stations located in the same Member State, except where the 
exercise of that right would compromise the economic equi­
librium of a public service contract. 
2. 
Whether the economic equilibrium of a public service 
contract would be compromised shall be determined by the 
relevant regulatory body or bodies referred to in Article 55 
on the basis of an objective economic analysis and based on 
pre-determined criteria, after a request from any of the 
following: 
(a) the competent authority or competent authorities that 
awarded the public service contract; 
(b) any other interested competent authority with the right to 
limit access under this Article; 
(c) the infrastructure manager; 
(d) the railway undertaking performing the public service 
contract. 
The competent authorities and the railway undertakings 
providing the public services shall provide the relevant regu­
latory body or bodies with the information reasonably 
required to reach a decision. The regulatory body shall 
consider the information provided by these parties, and, as 
appropriate, shall ask for relevant information from, and 
initiate consultation with, all relevant parties, within one 
month of receipt of the request. The regulatory body shall 
consult all the relevant parties as appropriate, and shall 
inform the relevant parties of its reasoned decision within a 
pre-determined, reasonable time, and, in any case, within six 
weeks of receipt of all relevant information. 
3. 
The regulatory body shall give the grounds for its decision 
and specify the time period within which, and the conditions 
under which, any of the following may request a recon­
sideration of the decision: 
(a) the relevant competent authority or competent authorities; 
(b) the infrastructure manager; 
(c) the railway undertaking performing the public service 
contract; 
(d) the railway undertaking seeking access. 
4. 
Based on the experience of regulatory bodies, competent 
authorities and railway undertakings and based on the activities 
of the network referred to in Article 57(1), the Commission 
shall adopt by 16 December 2016 measures setting out the 
details of the procedure and criteria to be followed for the 
application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article. Those 
implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the 
examination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
5. 
Member States may also limit the right to pick up and set 
down passengers at stations within the same Member State 
along the route of an international passenger service where an 
exclusive right to convey passengers between those stations has 
been granted under a concession contract awarded before 
4 December 2007 on the basis of a fair competitive 
tendering procedure and in accordance with the relevant prin­
ciples of Union law. Such a limitation may continue for the 
original duration of the contract, or 15 years, whichever is 
shorter.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/43
6. 
Member States shall ensure that the decisions referred to 
in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 are subject to judicial review. 
Article 12 
Levy on railway undertakings providing passenger services 
1. 
Without prejudice to Article 11(2), Member States may, 
under the conditions laid down in this Article, authorise the 
authority responsible for rail passenger transport to impose a 
levy on railway undertakings providing passenger services for 
the operation of routes which fall within the jurisdiction of that 
authority and which are operated between two stations in that 
Member State. 
In that case, railway undertakings providing domestic or inter­
national rail passenger transport services shall be subject to the 
same levy on the operation of routes which fall within the 
jurisdiction of that authority. 
2. 
The levy is intended to compensate the authority for 
public service obligations laid down in public service 
contracts awarded in accordance with Union law. The revenue 
raised from such a levy and paid as compensation shall not 
exceed what is necessary to cover all or part of the cost 
incurred in the relevant public service obligations taking into 
account the relevant receipts and a reasonable profit for 
discharging those obligations. 
3. 
The levy shall be imposed in accordance with Union law, 
and shall respect in particular the principles of fairness, trans­
parency, non-discrimination and proportionality, in particular 
between the average price of the service to the passenger and 
the level of the levy. The total levies imposed pursuant to this 
paragraph shall not endanger the economic viability of the rail 
passenger transport service on which they are imposed. 
4. 
The relevant authorities shall keep the information 
necessary to ensure that the origin of the levies and their use 
can be traced. Member States shall provide the Commission 
with this information. 
5. 
Based on the experience of regulatory bodies, competent 
authorities and railway undertakings and based on the activities 
of the network referred to in Article 57(1), the Commission 
shall adopt measures setting out the details of the procedure 
and criteria to be followed for the application of this Article. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with 
the examination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
Article 13 
Conditions of access to services 
1. 
Infrastructure managers shall supply to all railway under­
takings, in a non-discriminatory manner, the minimum access 
package laid down in point 1 of Annex II. 
2. 
Operators of service facilities shall supply in a non- 
discriminatory manner to all railway undertakings access, 
including track access, to the facilities referred to in point 2 
of Annex II, and to the services supplied in these facilities. 
3. 
To guarantee full transparency and non-discrimination of 
access to the service facilities referred to in points 2(a), (b), (c), 
(d), (g) and (i) of Annex II, and the supply of services in these 
facilities where the operator of such a service facility is under 
direct or indirect control of a body or firm which is also active 
and holds a dominant position in national railway transport 
services markets for which the facility is used, the operators 
of these service facilities shall be organised in such a way that 
they are independent of this body or firm in organisational and 
decision-making terms. Such independence shall not imply the 
requirement of the establishment of a separate legal entity for 
service facilities and may be fulfilled with the organisation of 
distinct divisions within a single legal entity. 
For all service facilities referred to in point 2 of Annex II, the 
operator and the body or firm shall have separate accounts, 
including separate balance sheets and profit and loss accounts. 
Where operation of the service facility is ensured by an infra­
structure manager or the operator of the service facility is under 
the direct or indirect control of an infrastructure manager 
compliance with the requirements set out in this paragraph 
shall be deemed to be demonstrated by the fulfilment of the 
requirements set out in Article 7. 
4. 
Requests by railway undertakings for access to, and supply 
of services in the service facility referred to in point 2 of Annex 
II shall be answered within a reasonable time limit set by the 
regulatory body referred to in Article 55. Such requests may 
only be refused if there are viable alternatives allowing them to 
operate the freight or passenger service concerned on the same 
or alternative routes under economically acceptable conditions. 
This shall not oblige the operator of the service facility to make 
investments in resources or facilities in order to accommodate 
all requests by railway undertakings. 
Where requests by railway undertakings concern access to, and 
supply of services in a service facility managed by an operator 
of the service facility referred to in paragraph 3, the operator of 
the service facility shall justify in writing any decision of refusal 
and indicate viable alternatives in other facilities.
EN 
L 343/44 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
5. 
Where an operator of the service facility referred to in 
point 2 of Annex II encounters conflicts between different 
requests, it shall attempt to meet all requests in so far as 
possible. If no viable alternative is available, and it is not 
possible to accommodate all requests for capacity for the 
relevant facility on the basis of demonstrated needs, the 
applicant may complain to the regulatory body referred to in 
Article 55 which shall examine the case and take action, where 
appropriate, to ensure that an appropriate part of the capacity is 
granted to that applicant. 
6. 
Where a service facility referred to in point 2 of Annex II 
has not been in use for at least two consecutive years and 
interest by railway undertakings for access to this facility has 
been expressed to the operator of that service facility on the 
basis of demonstrated needs, its owner shall publicise the 
operation of the facility as being for lease or rent as a rail 
service facility, as a whole or in part, unless the operator of 
that service facility demonstrates that an ongoing process of 
reconversion prevents its use by any railway undertaking. 
7. 
Where the operator of the service facility provides any of 
the services referred to in point 3 of Annex II as additional 
services, it shall supply them upon request to railway under­
takings in a non-discriminatory manner. 
8. 
Railway undertakings may request, as ancillary services, 
further services referred to in point 4 of Annex II from the 
infrastructure manager or from other operators of the service 
facility. The operator of the service facility is not obliged to 
supply these services. Where the operator of the service 
facility decides to offer to others any of these services, it shall 
supply them upon request to railway undertakings in a non- 
discriminatory manner. 
9. 
Based on the experience of regulatory bodies and 
operators of service facilities and based on the activities of 
the network referred to in Article 57(1), the Commission may 
adopt measures setting out the details of the procedure and 
criteria to be followed for access to the services to be 
supplied in the service facilities referred to in points 2 to 4 
of Annex II. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article 62(3). 
SECTION 5 
Cross-border agreements 
Article 14 
General principles for cross-border agreements 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that the provisions contained 
in cross-border agreements do not discriminate between railway 
undertakings, or restrict the freedom of railway undertakings to 
operate cross-border services. 
2. 
Member States shall notify the Commission of any cross- 
border agreement by 16 June 2013, for the agreements 
concluded before that date, and before their conclusion for 
new or revised agreements between Member States. The 
Commission shall decide whether such agreements are in 
compliance with Union law within nine months of notification 
for agreements concluded before 15 December 2012 and 
within four months of notification for new or revised 
agreements between Member States. Those implementing acts 
shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure 
referred to in Article 62(2). 
3. 
Without prejudice to the division of competence between 
the Union and the Member States, in accordance with Union 
law, Member States shall notify the Commission of their 
intention to enter into negotiations on, and to conclude, new 
or revised cross-border agreements between Member States and 
third countries. 
4. 
If, within two months of the receipt of the notification of 
a Member State's intention to enter into the negotiations 
referred to in paragraph 2, the Commission concludes that 
the negotiations are likely to undermine the objectives of 
Union 
negotiations underway with the third countries 
concerned and/or to lead to an agreement which is incom­
patible with Union law, it shall inform the Member State 
accordingly. 
Member States shall keep the Commission regularly informed of 
any such negotiations and, where appropriate, invite the 
Commission to participate as an observer. 
5. 
Member States shall be authorised to provisionally apply 
and/or to conclude new or revised cross-border agreements with 
third countries, provided that they are compatible with Union 
law and do not harm the object and purpose of the transport 
policy of the Union. The Commission shall adopt such auth­
orisation decisions. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in 
Article 62(2). 
SECTION 6 
Monitoring tasks of the Commission 
Article 15 
Scope of market monitoring 
1. 
The Commission shall make the necessary arrangements 
to monitor technical and economic conditions and market 
developments in Union rail transport.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/45
2. 
In this context, the Commission shall closely involve 
representatives of the Member States, including representatives 
of the regulatory bodies referred to in Article 55, and represen­
tatives of the sectors concerned in its work, including, where 
appropriate, the railway sector's social partners, users and repre­
sentatives of local and regional authorities, so that they are 
better able to monitor the development of the railway sector 
and the evolution of the market, to assess the effect of the 
measures adopted and to analyse the impact of the measures 
planned 
by 
the 
Commission. 
Where 
appropriate, 
the 
Commission shall also involve the European Railway Agency, 
in accordance with its functions as provided for in Regulation 
(EC) No 881/2004 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 29 April 2004 establishing a European Railway 
Agency (Agency Regulation) ( 1 ). 
3. 
The Commission shall monitor the use of the networks 
and the evolution of framework conditions in the rail sector, in 
particular 
infrastructure 
charging, 
capacity 
allocation, 
investments made in railway infrastructure, developments as 
regards prices and the quality of rail transport services, rail 
transport 
services 
covered 
by 
public 
service 
contracts, 
licensing and the degree of market opening and harmonisation 
between Member States, development of employment and the 
related social conditions in the rail sector. These monitoring 
activities are without prejudice to similar activities in Member 
States and to the role of social partners. 
4. 
The Commission shall report every two years to the 
European Parliament and the Council on: 
(a) the evolution of the internal market in rail services and 
services to be supplied to railway undertakings, as referred 
to in Annex II; 
(b) the framework conditions referred to in paragraph 3, 
including for public passenger transport services by rail; 
(c) the state of the Union railway network; 
(d) the utilisation of access rights; 
(e) barriers to more effective rail services; 
(f) infrastructure limitations; 
(g) the need for legislation. 
5. 
For 
the 
purposes of 
market 
monitoring 
by 
the 
Commission, Member States shall, while respecting the role of 
the social partners, supply to the Commission on an annual 
basis the necessary information on the use of the networks 
and the evolution of framework conditions in the rail sector. 
6. 
The 
Commission 
may 
adopt measures to 
ensure 
consistency in the reporting obligations of Member States. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with 
the examination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
CHAPTER III 
LICENSING OF RAILWAY UNDERTAKINGS 
SECTION 1 
Licensing authority 
Article 16 
Licensing authority 
Each Member State shall designate a licensing authority that 
shall be responsible for issuing licences and for carrying out 
the obligations imposed by this Chapter. 
The licensing authority shall not provide rail transport services 
itself and shall be independent of firms or entities that do so. 
SECTION 2 
Conditions for obtaining a licence 
Article 17 
General requirements 
1. 
An undertaking shall be entitled to apply for a licence in 
the Member State in which it is established. 
2. 
Member States shall not issue licences or extend their 
validity where the requirements of this Chapter are not 
complied with. 
3. 
An undertaking which fulfils the requirements set out in 
this Chapter shall be authorised to receive a licence. 
4. 
No undertaking shall be permitted to provide the rail 
transport services covered by this Chapter unless it has been 
granted the appropriate licence for the services to be provided. 
However, such a licence shall not, in itself, entitle the holder to 
access the railway infrastructure. 
5. 
The Commission shall adopt measures setting out the 
details for the use of a common template for the licence and, 
if needed to ensure fair and efficient competition in rail 
transport markets, details on the procedure to be followed for 
the application of this Article. Those implementing acts shall be 
adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred 
to in Article 62(3). 
Article 18 
Conditions for obtaining a licence 
An undertaking applying for a licence shall be required to be 
able to demonstrate to the licensing authorities of the Member 
State concerned before the start of its activities that it will at 
any time be able to meet the requirements relating to good 
repute, financial fitness, professional competence and cover 
for its civil liability as listed in Articles 19 to 22.
EN 
L 343/46 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ L 164, 30.4.2004, p. 1.
For those purposes, each undertaking applying for a licence 
shall provide all relevant information. 
Article 19 
Requirements relating to good repute 
Member States shall define the conditions under which the 
requirement of good repute is met to ensure that an under­
taking applying for a licence or the persons in charge of its 
management: 
(a) have not been convicted of serious criminal offences, 
including offences of a commercial nature; 
(b) have not been declared bankrupt; 
(c) have not been convicted of serious offences set out in 
specific legislation applicable to transport; 
(d) have not been convicted of serious or repeated failure to 
fulfil social or labour law obligations, including obligations 
under occupational safety and health legislation, and 
customs law obligations in the case of a company seeking 
to operate cross-border freight transport subject to customs 
procedures. 
Article 20 
Requirements relating to financial fitness 
1. 
The requirements relating to financial fitness shall be met 
when an undertaking applying for a licence can demonstrate 
that it will be able to meet its actual and potential obligations, 
established under realistic assumptions, for a period of 12 
months. 
2. 
The licensing authority shall verify financial fitness 
especially by means of a railway undertaking's annual 
accounts or, in the case of undertakings applying for a licence 
which are unable to present annual accounts, a balance sheet. 
Each undertaking applying for a licence shall provide at least the 
information listed in Annex III. 
3. 
The licensing authority shall not consider an undertaking 
applying for a licence to be financially fit if considerable or 
recurrent arrears of taxes or social security are owed as a 
result of that undertaking's activity. 
4. 
The licensing authority may require the submission of an 
audit report and suitable documents from a bank, public savings 
bank, accountant or auditor. Those documents shall include the 
information listed in Annex III. 
5. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 
acts in accordance with Article 60 concerning certain 
amendments to Annex III. Thus, Annex III may be amended 
to specify the information to be provided by undertakings 
applying for a licence or supplemented in the light of the 
experience gained by licensing authorities or the evolution of 
the rail transport market. 
Article 21 
Requirements relating to professional competence 
The requirements relating to professional competence shall be 
met when an undertaking applying for a licence can demon­
strate that it has or will have a management organisation which 
possesses the knowledge or experience necessary to exercise safe 
and reliable operational control and supervision of the type of 
operations specified in the licence. 
Article 22 
Requirements relating to cover for civil liability 
Without prejudice to Union rules on State aid and in 
accordance with Articles 93, 107 and 108 TFEU, a railway 
undertaking shall be adequately insured or have adequate guar­
antees under market conditions for cover, in accordance with 
national and international law, of its liabilities in the event of 
accidents, in particular in respect of passengers, luggage, freight, 
mail and third parties. Notwithstanding this obligation, the 
specificities and the risk-profile of different types of services, 
in particular of railway operations for cultural or heritage 
purposes, may be taken into account. 
SECTION 3 
Validity of the licence 
Article 23 
Spatial and temporal validity 
1. 
A licence shall be valid throughout the territory of the 
Union. 
2. 
A licence shall be valid as long as the railway undertaking 
fulfils the obligations laid down in this Chapter. A licensing 
authority may, however, make provision for a regular review. 
If so, the review shall be carried out at least every five years. 
3. 
Specific provisions governing the suspension or revo­
cation of a licence may be incorporated in the licence itself. 
Article 24 
Temporary licence, approval, suspension and revocation 
1. 
If there is serious doubt that a railway undertaking which 
it has licensed complies with the requirements of this Chapter, 
and in particular those of Article 18, the licensing authority 
may, at any time, check whether that railway undertaking 
does in fact comply with those requirements. 
Where a licensing authority is satisfied that a railway under­
taking can no longer meet the requirements, it shall suspend or 
revoke the licence. 
2. 
Where the licensing authority of a Member State is 
satisfied that there is serious doubt regarding compliance with 
the requirements laid down in this Chapter on the part of a 
railway undertaking to which a licence has been issued by the 
licensing authority of another Member State, it shall inform the 
latter authority without delay.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/47
3. 
Notwithstanding 
paragraph 1, 
where a 
licence is 
suspended or revoked on grounds of non-compliance with 
the requirement for financial fitness, the licensing authority 
may grant a temporary licence pending the reorganisation of 
the railway undertaking, provided that safety is not jeopardised. 
A temporary licence shall not, however, be valid for more than 
six months after its date of issue. 
4. 
Where a railway undertaking has ceased operations for six 
months or has not started operations within six months of the 
grant of a licence, the licensing authority may decide that the 
licence shall be required to be resubmitted for approval or be 
suspended. 
As regards the start of activities, the railway undertaking may 
ask for a longer period to be fixed, taking account of the 
specific nature of the services to be provided. 
5. 
In the event of a change affecting the legal situation of an 
undertaking and, in particular, in the event of a merger or 
takeover, the licensing authority may decide that the licence 
shall be resubmitted for approval. The railway undertaking in 
question may continue operations, unless the licensing authority 
decides that safety is jeopardised. In that event, the grounds for 
such a decision shall be given. 
6. 
Where a railway undertaking intends to significantly 
change or extend its activities, its licence shall be resubmitted 
to the licensing authority for review. 
7. 
A licensing authority shall not permit a railway under­
taking against which bankruptcy or similar proceedings have 
commenced to retain its licence if that authority is convinced 
that there is no realistic prospect of satisfactory financial 
restructuring within a reasonable period of time. 
8. 
Where a licensing authority issues, suspends, revokes or 
amends a licence, it shall immediately inform the European 
Railway Agency accordingly. The European Railway Agency 
shall inform the licensing authorities of other Member States 
forthwith. 
Article 25 
Procedure for granting licences 
1. 
The procedures for granting licences shall be made public 
by the Member State concerned, which shall inform the 
Commission thereof. 
2. 
The licensing authority shall take a decision on an appli­
cation as soon as possible, but not more than three months 
after all relevant information, notably the particulars referred to 
in Annex III, has been submitted. The licensing authority shall 
take into account all the available information. The decision 
shall be communicated to the undertaking applying for a 
licence without delay. A refusal shall state the grounds on 
which it is based. 
3. 
Member States shall ensure that the licensing authority's 
decisions are subject to judicial review. 
CHAPTER IV 
LEVYING OF CHARGES FOR THE USE OF RAILWAY INFRA­
STRUCTURE AND ALLOCATION OF RAILWAY INFRA­
STRUCTURE CAPACITY 
SECTION 1 
General principles 
Article 26 
Effective use of infrastructure capacity 
Member States shall ensure that charging and capacity-allo­
cation schemes for railway infrastructure follow the principles 
set down in this Directive and thus allow the infrastructure 
manager to market and make optimum effective use of the 
available infrastructure capacity. 
Article 27 
Network statement 
1. 
The infrastructure manager shall, after consultation with 
the interested parties, develop and publish a network statement 
which shall be obtainable against payment of a fee which shall 
not exceed the cost of publication of that statement. The 
network statement shall be published in at least two official 
languages of the Union. The content of the network 
statement shall be made available free of charge in electronic 
format on the web portal of the infrastructure manager and 
accessible through a common web portal. That web portal 
shall be set up by the infrastructure managers in the 
framework of their cooperation in accordance with Articles 
37 and 40. 
2. 
The network statement shall set out the nature of the 
infrastructure which is available to railway undertakings, and 
contain information setting out the conditions for access to 
the relevant railway infrastructure. The network statement 
shall also contain information setting out the conditions for 
access to service facilities connected to the network of the infra­
structure manager and for supply of services in these facilities or 
indicate a website where such information is made available free 
of charge in electronic format. The content of the network 
statement is laid down in Annex IV. 
3. 
The network statement shall be kept up to date and 
amended as necessary. 
4. 
The network statement shall be published no less than 
four months in advance of the deadline for requests for infra­
structure capacity. 
Article 28 
Agreements between railway undertakings and 
infrastructure managers 
Any railway undertaking engaged in rail transport services shall 
conclude the necessary agreements under public or private law 
with the infrastructure managers of the railway infrastructure 
used. The conditions governing such agreements shall be non- 
discriminatory and transparent, in accordance with this 
Directive.
EN 
L 343/48 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
SECTION 2 
Infrastructure and services charges 
Article 29 
Establishing, determining and collecting charges 
1. 
Member States shall establish a charging framework while 
respecting the management independence laid down in 
Article 4. 
Subject to that condition, Member States shall also establish 
specific charging rules or delegate such powers to the infra­
structure manager. 
Member States shall ensure that the network statement contains 
the charging framework and charging rules or indicates a 
website where the charging framework and charging rules are 
published. 
The infrastructure manager shall determine and collect the 
charge for the use of infrastructure in accordance with the 
established charging framework and charging rules. 
Without prejudice to the management independence laid down 
in Article 4 and provided that the right has been directly 
conferred by constitutional law before 15 December 2010, 
the national parliament may have the right to scrutinise and, 
where appropriate, review the level of charges determined by 
the infrastructure manager. Any such review shall ensure that 
charges comply with this Directive, the established charging 
framework and charging rules. 
2. 
Except where specific arrangements are made under 
Article 32(3), infrastructure managers shall ensure that the 
charging scheme in use is based on the same principles over 
the whole of their network. 
3. 
Infrastructure managers shall ensure that the application 
of the charging scheme results in equivalent and non-discrimi­
natory charges for different railway undertakings that perform 
services of an equivalent nature in a similar part of the market 
and that the charges actually applied comply with the rules laid 
down in the network statement. 
4. 
An infrastructure manager shall respect the commercial 
confidentiality of information provided to it by applicants. 
Article 30 
Infrastructure cost and accounts 
1. 
Infrastructure managers shall, with due regard to safety 
and to maintaining and improving the quality of the infra­
structure service, be given incentives to reduce the costs of 
providing infrastructure and the level of access charges. 
2. 
Without prejudice to their competence regarding railway 
infrastructure planning and financing, and to the budgetary 
principle of annuality, where applicable, Member States shall 
ensure that a contractual agreement, fulfilling the basic prin­
ciples and parameters set out in Annex V, is concluded 
between the competent authority and the infrastructure 
manager covering a period of not less than five years. 
Member States shall ensure that contractual agreements in force 
on 15 December 2012 are modified, if necessary, to align them 
with this Directive upon their renewal, or at the latest by 
16 June 2015. 
3. 
Member States shall implement the incentives referred to 
in paragraph 1 through the contractual agreement referred to in 
paragraph 2 or through regulatory measures or through a 
combination of incentives to reduce costs in the contractual 
agreement and the level of charges through regulatory measures. 
4. 
If a Member State decides to implement the incentives 
referred to in paragraph 1 through regulatory measures, this 
shall be based on an analysis of the achievable cost reductions. 
This shall be without prejudice to the powers of the regulatory 
body to review the charges referred to in Article 56. 
5. 
The terms of the contractual agreement referred to in 
paragraph 2 and the structure of the payments agreed to 
provide funding to the infrastructure manager shall be agreed 
in advance to cover the whole of the contractual period. 
6. 
Member States shall ensure that applicants and, upon their 
request, potential applicants are informed by the competent 
authority and the infrastructure manager and are given the 
opportunity to express their views on the content of the 
contractual agreement before it is signed. The contractual 
agreement shall be published within one month of concluding 
it. 
The infrastructure manager shall ensure consistency between the 
provisions of the contractual agreement and the business plan. 
7. 
Infrastructure managers shall develop and maintain a 
register of their assets and the assets they are responsible for 
managing which would be used to assess the financing needed 
to repair or replace them. This shall be accompanied by details 
of expenditure on renewal and upgrading of the infrastructure. 
8. 
Infrastructure managers shall establish a method for 
apportioning costs to the different categories of services 
offered to railway undertakings. Member States may require 
prior approval. That method shall be updated from time to 
time on the basis of the best international practice. 
Article 31 
Principles of charging 
1. 
Charges for the use of railway infrastructure and of service 
facilities shall be paid to the infrastructure manager and to the 
operator of service facility respectively and used to fund their 
business.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/49
2. 
Member States shall require the infrastructure manager 
and the operator of service facility to provide the regulatory 
body with all necessary information on the charges imposed 
in order to allow the regulatory body to perform its functions 
as referred to in Article 56. The infrastructure manager and the 
operator of service facility shall, in this regard, be able to 
demonstrate to railway undertakings that infrastructure and 
service charges actually invoiced to the railway undertaking 
pursuant to Articles 30 to 37 comply with the methodology, 
rules and, where applicable, scales laid down in the network 
statement. 
3. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 4 or 5 of this Article or 
to Article 32, the charges for the minimum access package and 
for access to infrastructure connecting service facilities shall be 
set at the cost that is directly incurred as a result of operating 
the train service. 
Before 16 June 2015, the Commission shall adopt measures 
setting out the modalities for the calculation of the cost that 
is directly incurred as a result of operating the train. Those 
implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the 
examination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
The infrastructure manager may decide to gradually adapt to 
those modalities during a period of no more than four years 
after the entry into force of those implementing acts. 
4. 
The infrastructure charges referred to in paragraph 3 may 
include a charge which reflects the scarcity of capacity of the 
identifiable section of the infrastructure during periods of 
congestion. 
5. 
The infrastructure charges referred to in paragraph 3 may 
be modified to take account of the cost of environmental effects 
caused by the operation of the train. Any such modification 
shall be differentiated according to the magnitude of the 
effect caused. 
Based on the experience gained by infrastructure managers, 
railway undertakings, regulatory bodies and competent auth­
orities, and recognising existing schemes on noise differenti­
ation, the Commission shall adopt implementing measures 
setting out the modalities to be followed for the application 
of the charging for the cost of noise effects including its 
duration of application and enabling the differentiation of infra­
structure charges to take into account, where appropriate, the 
sensitivity of the area affected, in particular in terms of the size 
of population affected and the train composition with an 
impact on the level of noise emissions. Those implementing 
acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article 62(3). They shall not result in 
the undue distortion of competition between railway under­
takings or affect the overall competitiveness of the rail sector. 
Any such modification of infrastructure charges to take account 
of the cost of noise effects shall support the retrofitting of 
wagons with the most economically viable low-noise braking 
technology available. 
Charging of environmental costs which results in an increase in 
the overall revenue accruing to the infrastructure manager shall 
however be allowed only if such charging is applied to road 
freight transport in accordance with Union law. 
If charging for environmental costs generates additional 
revenue, it shall be for Member States to decide how the 
revenue is to be used. 
Member States shall ensure that the necessary information is 
kept and that the origin of the charging of environmental costs 
and its application can be traced. Member States shall provide 
the Commission with this information upon request. 
6. 
To avoid undesirable disproportionate fluctuations, the 
charges referred to in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 may be averaged 
over a reasonable spread of train services and times. Never­
theless, the relative magnitude of the infrastructure charge 
shall be related to the costs attributable to the services. 
7. 
The charge imposed for track access within service 
facilities referred to in point 2 of Annex II, and the supply of 
services in such facilities, shall not exceed the cost of providing 
it, plus a reasonable profit. 
8. 
Where services listed in points 3 and 4 of Annex II, as 
additional and ancillary services are offered by only one 
supplier, the charge imposed for such a service shall not 
exceed the cost of providing it, plus a reasonable profit. 
9. 
Charges may be levied for capacity used for the purpose 
of infrastructure maintenance. Such charges shall not exceed the 
net revenue loss to the infrastructure manager caused by the 
maintenance. 
10. 
The operator of the facility for supply of the services 
referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 of Annex II shall provide the 
infrastructure manager with the information on charges to be 
included in the network statement or shall indicate a website 
where such information is made available free of charge in 
electronic format in accordance with Article 27. 
Article 32 
Exceptions to charging principles 
1. 
In order to obtain full recovery of the costs incurred by 
the infrastructure manager a Member State may, if the market 
can bear this, levy mark-ups on the basis of efficient, trans­
parent and non-discriminatory principles, while guaranteeing 
optimal competitiveness of rail market segments. The charging 
system shall respect the productivity increases achieved by 
railway undertakings. 
The level of charges shall not, however, exclude the use of 
infrastructure by market segments which can pay at least the 
cost that is directly incurred as a result of operating the railway 
service, plus a rate of return which the market can bear.
EN 
L 343/50 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
Before approving the levy of such mark-ups, Member States 
shall ensure that the infrastructure managers evaluate their 
relevance for specific market segments, considering at least 
the pairs listed in point 1 of Annex VI and retaining the 
relevant ones. The list of market segments defined by infra­
structure managers shall contain at least the three following 
segments: freight services, passenger services within the 
framework of a public service contract and other passenger 
services. 
Infrastructure 
managers 
may 
further 
distinguish 
market 
segments according to commodity or passengers transported. 
Market segments in which railway undertakings are not 
currently operating but may provide services during the 
period of validity of the charging system shall also be defined. 
The infrastructure manager shall not include a mark-up in the 
charging system for those market segments. 
The list of market segments shall be published in the network 
statement and shall be reviewed at least every five years. The 
regulatory body referred to in Article 55 shall control that list 
in accordance with Article 56. 
2. 
For the carriage of goods from and to third countries 
operated on a network whose track gauge is different from 
the main rail network within the Union, infrastructure 
managers may set higher charges in order to obtain full costs 
recovery of the costs incurred. 
3. 
For specific future investment projects, or specific 
investment projects that have been completed after 1988, the 
infrastructure manager may set or continue to set higher 
charges on the basis of the long-term costs of such projects if 
they increase efficiency or cost-effectiveness or both and could 
not otherwise be or have been undertaken. Such a charging 
arrangement may also incorporate agreements on the sharing 
of the risk associated with new investments. 
4. 
The infrastructure charges for the use of railway corridors 
which are specified in Commission Decision 2009/561/EC ( 1 ) 
shall be differentiated to give incentives to equip trains with 
the ETCS compliant with the version adopted by the 
Commission 
Decision 
2008/386/EC ( 2 ) 
and 
successive 
versions. Such differentiation shall not result in any overall 
change in revenue for the infrastructure manager. 
Notwithstanding this obligation, Member States may decide that 
this differentiation of infrastructure charges does not apply to 
railway lines specified in Decision 2009/561/EC on which only 
ETCS equipped trains may run. 
Member States may decide to extend this differentiation to 
railway lines not specified in Decision 2009/561/EC. 
Before 16 June 2015 and following an impact assessment, the 
Commission shall adopt measures setting out modalities to be 
followed in applying the differentiation of the infrastructure 
charge according to a time-frame consistent with the ERTMS 
European 
Deployment 
Plan 
established 
under 
Decision 
2009/561/EC and ensuring that it does not result in any 
overall change in revenue for the infrastructure manager. 
Those implementing measures shall adapt the modalities of 
the differentiation applicable to trains operating local and 
regional services using a limited section of the railway 
corridors specified in Decision 2009/561/EC. Those imple­
menting acts shall be adopted in accordance with the exam­
ination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). They shall not 
result in the undue distortion of competition between railway 
undertakings or affect the overall competitiveness of the rail 
sector. 
5. 
To prevent discrimination, Member States shall ensure 
that any given infrastructure manager's average and marginal 
charges for equivalent use of its infrastructure are comparable 
and that comparable services in the same market segment are 
subject to the same charges. The infrastructure manager shall 
show in the network statement that the charging system meets 
these requirements in so far as this can be done without 
disclosing confidential business information. 
6. 
If an infrastructure manager intends to modify the 
essential elements of the charging system referred to in 
paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall make them public at least 
three months in advance of the deadline for the publication of 
the network statement according to Article 27(4). 
Article 33 
Discounts 
1. 
Without prejudice to Articles 101, 102, 106 and 107 
TFEU and notwithstanding the direct cost principle laid down 
in Article 31(3) of this Directive, any discount on the charges 
levied on a railway undertaking by the infrastructure manager, 
for any service, shall comply with the criteria set out in this 
Article. 
2. 
With the exception of paragraph 3, discounts shall be 
limited to the actual saving of the administrative cost to the 
infrastructure manager. In determining the level of discount, no 
account may be taken of cost savings already internalised in the 
charge levied.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/51 
( 1 ) Commission Decision 2009/561/EC of 22 July 2009 amending 
Decision 2006/679/EC as regards the implementation of the 
technical specification for interoperability relating to the control- 
command and signalling subsystem of the trans-European conven­
tional rail system (OJ L 194, 25.7.2009, p. 60). 
( 2 ) Commission Decision 2008/386/EC of 23 April 2008 modifying 
Annex A to Decision 2006/679/EC concerning the technical spec­
ification for interoperability relating to the control-command and 
signalling subsystem of the trans-European conventional rail 
system and Annex A to Decision 2006/860/EC concerning the 
technical specification for interoperability relating to the control- 
command and signalling subsystem of the trans-European high- 
speed rail system (OJ L 136, 24.5.2008, p. 11).
3. 
Infrastructure managers may introduce schemes available 
to all users of the infrastructure, for specified traffic flows, 
granting time-limited discounts to encourage the development 
of new rail services, or discounts encouraging the use of 
considerably underutilised lines. 
4. 
Discounts may relate only to charges levied for a specified 
infrastructure section. 
5. 
Similar discount schemes shall apply for similar services. 
Discount schemes shall be applied in a non-discriminatory 
manner to any railway undertaking. 
Article 34 
Compensation schemes for unpaid environmental, accident 
and infrastructure costs 
1. 
Member States may put in place a time-limited compen­
sation scheme for the use of railway infrastructure for the 
demonstrably unpaid environmental, accident and infrastructure 
costs of competing transport modes in so far as these costs 
exceed the equivalent costs of rail. 
2. 
Where a railway undertaking receiving compensation 
enjoys an exclusive right, the compensation shall be accom­
panied by comparable benefits to users. 
3. 
The methodology used and calculations performed shall 
be publicly available. It shall in particular be possible to demon­
strate the specific uncharged costs of the competing transport 
infrastructure that are avoided and to ensure that the scheme is 
granted on non-discriminatory terms to undertakings. 
4. 
Member States shall ensure that the scheme is compatible 
with Articles 93, 107 and 108 TFEU. 
Article 35 
Performance scheme 
1. 
Infrastructure charging schemes shall encourage railway 
undertakings and the infrastructure manager to minimise 
disruption and improve the performance of the railway 
network through a performance scheme. This scheme may 
include penalties for actions which disrupt the operation of 
the network, compensation for undertakings which suffer 
from disruption and bonuses that reward better-than-planned 
performance. 
2. 
The basic principles of the performance scheme as listed 
in point 2 of Annex VI shall apply throughout the network. 
3. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 
acts in accordance with Article 60 concerning amendments to 
point 2(c) of Annex VI. Thus point 2(c) of Annex VI, may be 
amended in the light of the evolution of the rail market and 
experience gained by regulatory bodies referred to in Article 55, 
infrastructure 
managers 
and 
railway 
undertakings. 
Such 
amendments shall adapt the classes of delay to the best 
practices developed by industry. 
Article 36 
Reservation charges 
Infrastructure managers may levy an appropriate charge for 
capacity that is allocated but not used. That non-usage charge 
shall provide incentives for efficient use of capacity. The levy of 
such a charge on applicants that were allocated a train path 
shall be mandatory in the event of their regular failure to use 
allocated paths or part of them. For the imposition of this 
charge, the infrastructure managers shall publish in their 
network statement the criteria to determine such failure to 
use. The regulatory body referred to in Article 55 shall 
control such criteria in accordance with Article 56. Payments 
for this charge shall be made by either the applicant or the 
railway undertaking appointed in accordance with Article 41(1). 
The infrastructure manager shall always be able to inform any 
interested party of the infrastructure capacity which has already 
been allocated to user railway undertakings. 
Article 37 
Cooperation in relation to charging systems on more than 
one network 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that infrastructure managers 
cooperate to enable the application of efficient charging 
schemes, and associate to coordinate the charging or to 
charge for the operation of train services which cross more 
than one infrastructure network of the rail system within the 
Union. Infrastructure managers shall, in particular, aim to 
guarantee the optimal competitiveness of international rail 
services and ensure the efficient use of the railway networks. 
To this end they shall establish appropriate procedures, subject 
to the rules set out in this Directive. 
2. 
For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, Member 
States shall ensure that infrastructure managers cooperate to 
enable mark-ups, as referred to in Article 32, and performance 
schemes, as referred to in Article 35, to be efficiently applied, 
for traffic crossing more than one network of the rail system 
within the Union. 
SECTION 3 
Allocation of infrastructure capacity 
Article 38 
Capacity rights 
1. 
Infrastructure capacity shall be allocated by an infra­
structure manager. Once allocated to an applicant, it shall not 
be transferred by the recipient to another undertaking or 
service.
EN 
L 343/52 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
Any trading in infrastructure capacity shall be prohibited and 
shall lead to exclusion from the further allocation of capacity. 
The use of capacity by a railway undertaking when carrying out 
the business of an applicant which is not a railway undertaking 
shall not be considered as a transfer. 
2. 
The right to use specific infrastructure capacity in the 
form of a train path may be granted to applicants for a 
maximum duration of one working timetable period. 
An infrastructure manager and an applicant may enter into a 
framework agreement as laid down in Article 42 for the use of 
capacity on the relevant railway infrastructure for a longer term 
than one working timetable period. 
3. 
The respective rights and obligations of infrastructure 
managers and applicants in respect of any allocation of 
capacity shall be laid down in contracts or in Member States' 
legislation. 
4. 
Where an applicant intends to request infrastructure 
capacity with a view to operating an international passenger 
service, it shall inform the infrastructure managers and the 
regulatory bodies concerned. In order to enable them to 
assess whether the purpose of the international service is to 
carry passengers on a route between stations located in 
different Member States, and what the potential economic 
impact on existing public service contracts is, regulatory 
bodies shall ensure that any competent authority that has 
awarded a rail passenger service on that route defined in a 
public service contract, any other interested competent 
authority with a right to limit access under Article 11 and 
any railway undertaking performing the public service 
contract on the route of that international passenger service is 
informed. 
Article 39 
Capacity allocation 
1. 
Member States may lay down a framework for the allo­
cation of infrastructure capacity subject to the condition of 
management independence laid down in Article 4. Specific 
capacity-allocation rules shall be laid down. The infrastructure 
manager shall perform the capacity-allocation processes. In 
particular, the infrastructure manager shall ensure that infra­
structure capacity is allocated in a fair and non-discriminatory 
manner and in accordance with Union law. 
2. 
Infrastructure managers shall respect the commercial 
confidentiality of information provided to them. 
Article 40 
Cooperation in the allocation of infrastructure capacity on 
more than one network 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that infrastructure managers 
cooperate to enable the efficient creation and allocation of infra­
structure capacity which crosses more than one network of the 
rail system within the Union, including under framework 
agreements referred to in Article 42. Infrastructure managers 
shall establish appropriate procedures, subject to the rules set 
out in this Directive, and organise train paths crossing more 
than one network accordingly. 
Member States shall ensure that representatives of infrastructure 
managers whose allocation decisions have an impact on other 
infrastructure managers associate in order to coordinate the 
allocation of or to allocate all relevant infrastructure capacity 
at an international level, without prejudice to the specific rules 
contained in Union law on rail freight oriented networks. The 
principles and criteria for capacity allocation established under 
this cooperation shall be published by infrastructure managers 
in their network statement in accordance with paragraph 3 of 
Annex 
IV. 
Appropriate 
representatives 
of 
infrastructure 
managers from third countries may be associated with these 
procedures. 
2. 
The Commission shall be informed of and invited to 
attend as an observer at the main meetings at which 
common principles and practices for the allocation of infra­
structure are developed. Regulatory bodies shall receive 
sufficient information about the development of common prin­
ciples and practices for the allocation of infrastructure and from 
IT-based allocation systems, to allow them to perform their 
regulatory supervision in accordance with Article 56. 
3. 
At any meeting or other activity undertaken to permit the 
allocation of infrastructure capacity for trans-network train 
services, decisions shall only be taken by representatives of 
infrastructure managers. 
4. 
The participants in the cooperation referred to paragraph 
1 shall ensure that its membership, methods of operation and 
all relevant criteria which are used for assessing and allocating 
infrastructure capacity be made publicly available. 
5. 
Working in cooperation, as referred to in paragraph 1, 
infrastructure managers shall assess the need for, and may 
where necessary propose and organise international train 
paths to facilitate the operation of freight trains which are 
subject to an ad hoc request as referred to in Article 48. 
Such prearranged international train paths shall be made 
available to applicants through any of the participating infra­
structure managers. 
Article 41 
Applicants 
1. 
Requests for infrastructure capacity may be made by appli­
cants. In order to use such infrastructure capacity, applicants 
shall appoint a railway undertaking to conclude an agreement 
with the infrastructure manager in accordance with Article 28. 
This is without prejudice to the right of applicants to conclude 
agreements with infrastructure managers under Article 44(1).
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/53
2. 
The infrastructure manager may set requirements with 
regard to applicants to ensure that its legitimate expectations 
about future revenues and utilisation of the infrastructure are 
safeguarded. Such requirements shall be appropriate, transparent 
and non-discriminatory. They shall be specified in the network 
statement as referred to in point 3(b) of Annex IV. They may 
only include the provision of a financial guarantee that shall not 
exceed an appropriate level which shall be proportional to the 
contemplated level of activity of the applicant, and assurance of 
the capability to prepare compliant bids for infrastructure 
capacity. 
3. 
Before 16 June 2015, the Commission shall adopt imple­
menting measures setting out the details of the criteria to be 
followed for the application of paragraph 2. Those imple­
menting acts shall be adopted in accordance with the exam­
ination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
Article 42 
Framework agreements 
1. 
Without prejudice to Articles 101, 102 and 106 TFEU, a 
framework agreement may be concluded between an infra­
structure manager and an applicant. Such a framework 
agreement shall specify the characteristics of the infrastructure 
capacity required by and offered to the applicant over a period 
of time exceeding one working timetable period. 
The framework agreement shall not specify a train path in 
detail, but shall be such as to meet the legitimate commercial 
needs of the applicant. A Member State may require prior 
approval of such a framework agreement by the regulatory 
body referred to in Article 55 of this Directive. 
2. 
Framework agreements shall not be such as to preclude 
the use of the relevant infrastructure by other applicants or 
services. 
3. 
Framework agreements shall allow for the amendment or 
limitation of its terms to enable better use to be made of the 
railway infrastructure. 
4. 
Framework agreements may contain penalties should it be 
necessary to modify or terminate the agreement. 
5. 
Framework agreements shall, in principle, cover a period 
of five years, renewable for periods equal to their original 
duration. The infrastructure manager may agree to a shorter 
or longer period in specific cases. Any period longer than five 
years shall be justified by the existence of commercial contracts, 
specialised investments or risks. 
6. 
For services using specialised infrastructure referred to in 
Article 49 which requires substantial and long-term investment, 
duly justified by the applicant, framework agreements may be 
for a period of 15 years. Any period longer than 15 years shall 
be permissible only in exceptional cases, in particular where 
there is large-scale, long-term investment, and particularly 
where such investment is covered by contractual commitments 
including a multiannual amortisation plan. 
In such exceptional cases, the framework agreement may set out 
the detailed characteristics of the capacity which is to be 
provided to the applicant for the duration of the framework 
agreement. Those characteristics may include the frequency, 
volume and quality of train paths. The infrastructure manager 
may reduce reserved capacity which, over a period of at least 
one month, has been used less than the threshold quota 
provided for in Article 52. 
As from 1 January 2010, an initial framework agreement may 
be drawn up for a period of five years, renewable once, on the 
basis of the capacity characteristics used by applicants operating 
services before 1 January 2010, in order to take account of 
specialised investments or the existence of commercial 
contracts. The regulatory body referred to in Article 55 shall 
be responsible for authorising the entry into force of such an 
agreement. 
7. 
While respecting commercial confidentiality, the general 
nature of each framework agreement shall be made available 
to any interested party. 
8. 
Based on the experience of regulatory bodies, competent 
authorities and railway undertakings and based on the activities 
of the network referred to in Article 57(1), the Commission 
may adopt measures setting out the details of the procedure 
and criteria to be followed for the application of this Article. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with 
the examination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
Article 43 
Schedule for the allocation process 
1. 
The infrastructure manager shall adhere to the schedule 
for capacity allocation set out in Annex VII. 
2. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 
acts in accordance with Article 60 concerning certain 
amendments to Annex VII. Thus, after consultation of all infra­
structure managers, Annex VII may be amended to take into 
account operational considerations of the allocation process. 
Those amendments shall be based on what is necessary in the 
light of experience in order to ensure an efficient allocation 
process and to reflect the operational concerns of the infra­
structure managers. 
3. 
Infrastructure managers shall agree with the other relevant 
infrastructure managers concerned which international train 
paths are to be included in the working timetable, before 
commencing consultation on the draft working timetable. 
Adjustments shall only be made if absolutely necessary. 
Article 44 
Applications 
1. 
Applicants may apply under public or private law to the 
infrastructure manager to request an agreement granting rights 
to use railway infrastructure against a charge as provided for in 
Section 2 of Chapter IV.
EN 
L 343/54 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
2. 
Requests relating to the regular working timetable shall 
comply with the deadlines set out in Annex VII. 
3. 
An applicant who is a party to a framework agreement 
shall apply in accordance with that agreement. 
4. 
For train paths crossing more than one network, infra­
structure managers shall ensure that applicants may apply to a 
one-stop shop that is either a joint body established by the 
infrastructure managers or one single infrastructure manager 
involved in the train path. That infrastructure manager shall 
be permitted to act on behalf of the applicant to seek 
capacity with other relevant infrastructure managers. This 
requirement is without prejudice to Regulation (EU) No 
913/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
22 September 2010 concerning a European rail network for 
competitive freight ( 1 ). 
Article 45 
Scheduling 
1. 
The infrastructure manager shall, as far as possible, meet 
all requests for infrastructure capacity including requests for 
train paths crossing more than one network, and shall, as far 
as possible, take account of all constraints on applicants, 
including the economic effect on their business. 
2. 
The infrastructure manager may give priority to specific 
services within the scheduling and coordination process but 
only as set out in Articles 47 and 49. 
3. 
The infrastructure manager shall consult interested parties 
about the draft working timetable and allow them at least one 
month to present their views. Interested parties shall include all 
those who have requested infrastructure capacity and other 
parties who wish to have the opportunity to comment on 
how the working timetable may affect their ability to procure 
rail services during the working timetable period. 
4. 
The 
infrastructure 
manager 
shall 
take 
appropriate 
measures to deal with any concerns that are expressed. 
Article 46 
Coordination process 
1. 
During the scheduling process referred to in Article 45, 
where the infrastructure manager encounters conflicts between 
different requests, it shall attempt, through coordination of the 
requests, to ensure the best possible matching of all require­
ments. 
2. 
Where a situation requiring coordination arises, the infra­
structure manager shall have the right, within reasonable limits, 
to propose infrastructure capacity that differs from that which 
was requested. 
3. 
The infrastructure manager shall attempt, through consul­
tation with the appropriate applicants, to resolve any conflicts. 
Such consultation shall be based on the disclosure of the 
following information within a reasonable time, free of charge 
and in written or electronic form: 
(a) train paths requested by all other applicants on the same 
routes; 
(b) train paths allocated on a preliminary basis to all other 
applicants on the same routes; 
(c) alternative train paths proposed on the relevant routes in 
accordance with paragraph 2; 
(d) full details of the criteria being used in the capacity-allo­
cation process. 
In accordance with Article 39(2), that information shall be 
provided without disclosing the identity of other applicants, 
unless applicants concerned have agreed to such disclosure. 
4. 
The principles governing the coordination process shall be 
set out in the network statement. These shall, in particular, 
reflect the difficulty of arranging international train paths and 
the effect that modification may have on other infrastructure 
managers. 
5. 
Where requests for infrastructure capacity cannot be 
satisfied without coordination, the infrastructure manager shall 
attempt to accommodate all requests through coordination. 
6. 
Without prejudice to the current appeal procedures and to 
Article 56, in the event of disputes relating to the allocation of 
infrastructure capacity, a dispute resolution system shall be 
made available in order to resolve such disputes promptly. 
This system shall be set out in the network statement. If this 
system is applied, a decision shall be reached within a time limit 
of 10 working days. 
Article 47 
Congested infrastructure 
1. 
Where, after coordination of the requested train paths and 
consultation with applicants, it is not possible to satisfy requests 
for 
infrastructure 
capacity 
adequately, 
the 
infrastructure 
manager shall immediately declare that section of infrastructure 
on which this has occurred to be congested. This shall also be 
done for infrastructure which can be expected to suffer from 
insufficient capacity in the near future. 
2. 
Where infrastructure has been declared to be congested, 
the infrastructure manager shall carry out a capacity analysis as 
provided for in Article 50, unless a capacity-enhancement plan, 
as provided for in Article 51, is already being implemented.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/55 
( 1 ) OJ L 276, 20.10.2010, p. 22.
3. 
Where charges in accordance with Article 31(4) have not 
been levied or have not achieved a satisfactory result and the 
infrastructure has been declared to be congested, the infra­
structure manager may, in addition, employ priority criteria to 
allocate infrastructure capacity. 
4. 
The priority criteria shall take account of the importance 
of a service to society relative to any other service which will 
consequently be excluded. 
In order to guarantee the development of adequate transport 
services within this framework, in particular to comply with 
public-service requirements or to promote the development of 
national and international rail freight, Member States may take 
any measures necessary, under non-discriminatory conditions, 
to ensure that such services are given priority when infra­
structure capacity is allocated. 
Member States may, where appropriate, grant the infrastructure 
manager compensation corresponding to any loss of revenue 
related to the need to allocate a given capacity to certain 
services pursuant to the second subparagraph. 
Those measures and that compensation shall include taking 
account of the effect of this exclusion in other Member States. 
5. 
The importance of freight services, and in particular inter­
national freight services, shall be given adequate consideration 
in determining priority criteria. 
6. 
The procedures to be followed and the criteria to be used 
where infrastructure is congested shall be set out in the network 
statement. 
Article 48 
Ad hoc requests 
1. 
The infrastructure manager shall respond to ad hoc 
requests for individual train paths as quickly as possible, and 
in any event within five working days. Information supplied on 
available spare capacity shall be made available to all applicants 
who may wish to use this capacity. 
2. 
Infrastructure managers shall, where necessary, undertake 
an evaluation of the need for reserve capacity to be kept 
available within the final scheduled working timetable to 
enable them to respond rapidly to foreseeable ad hoc requests 
for capacity. This shall also apply in cases of congested infra­
structure. 
Article 49 
Specialised infrastructure 
1. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, infrastructure capacity 
shall be considered to be available for the use of all types of 
service which conform to the characteristics necessary for 
operation on the train path. 
2. 
Where there are suitable alternative routes, the infra­
structure manager may, after consultation with interested 
parties, designate particular infrastructure for use by specified 
types of traffic. Without prejudice to Articles 101, 102 and 106 
TFEU, where such designation has occurred, the infrastructure 
manager may give priority to this type of traffic when allocating 
infrastructure capacity. 
Such designation shall not prevent the use of such infrastructure 
by other types of traffic when capacity is available. 
3. 
Where infrastructure has been designated pursuant to 
paragraph 2, this shall be described in the network statement. 
Article 50 
Capacity analysis 
1. 
The objective of capacity analysis is to determine the 
constraints on infrastructure capacity which prevent requests 
for capacity from being adequately met, and to propose 
methods of enabling additional requests to be satisfied. The 
capacity analysis shall identify the reasons for the congestion 
and what measures might be taken in the short and medium 
term to ease the congestion. 
2. 
The capacity analysis shall consider the infrastructure, the 
operating procedures, the nature of the different services 
operating and the effect of all these factors on infrastructure 
capacity. Measures to be considered shall include in particular 
rerouting services, retiming services, speed alterations and infra­
structure improvements. 
3. 
A capacity analysis shall be completed within six months 
of the identification of infrastructure as congested. 
Article 51 
Capacity-enhancement plan 
1. 
Within six months of the completion of a capacity 
analysis, the infrastructure manager shall produce a capacity- 
enhancement plan. 
2. 
A capacity-enhancement plan shall be developed after 
consultation with users of the relevant congested infrastructure. 
It shall identify: 
(a) the reasons for the congestion; 
(b) the likely future development of traffic; 
(c) the constraints on infrastructure development; 
(d) the options and costs for capacity enhancement, including 
likely changes to access charges.
EN 
L 343/56 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
On the basis of a cost benefit analysis of the possible measures 
identified, it shall also determine the action to be taken to 
enhance infrastructure capacity, including a timetable for imple­
menting the measures. 
The plan may be subject to prior approval by the Member State. 
3. 
The infrastructure manager shall cease to levy any charges 
for the relevant infrastructure under Article 31(4) in cases 
where: 
(a) it does not produce a capacity-enhancement plan; or 
(b) it does not make progress with the actions identified in the 
capacity enhancement plan. 
4. 
Notwithstanding paragraph 3 of this Article, the infra­
structure manager may, subject to the approval of the regu­
latory body referred to in Article 55, continue to levy the 
charges if: 
(a) the capacity-enhancement plan cannot be realised for 
reasons beyond its control; or 
(b) the options available are not economically or financially 
viable. 
Article 52 
Use of train paths 
1. 
In the network statement, the infrastructure manager shall 
specify conditions whereby it will take account of previous 
levels of utilisation of train paths in determining priorities for 
the allocation process. 
2. 
For congested infrastructure in particular, the infra­
structure manager shall require the surrender of a train path 
which, over a period of at least one month, has been used less 
than a threshold quota to be laid down in the network 
statement, unless this was due to non-economic reasons 
beyond the applicant's control. 
Article 53 
Infrastructure capacity for maintenance work 
1. 
Requests for infrastructure capacity to enable maintenance 
work to be performed shall be submitted during the scheduling 
process. 
2. 
Adequate account shall be taken by the infrastructure 
manager of the effect of infrastructure capacity reserved for 
scheduled track maintenance work on applicants. 
3. 
The infrastructure manager shall inform, as soon as 
possible, interested parties about the unavailability of infra­
structure capacity due to unscheduled maintenance work. 
Article 54 
Special measures to be taken in the event of disturbance 
1. 
In the event of disturbance to train movements caused by 
technical failure or accident the infrastructure manager shall 
take all necessary steps to restore the situation to normal. To 
that end, it shall draw up a contingency plan listing the various 
bodies to be informed in the event of serious incidents or 
serious disturbance to train movements. 
2. 
In an emergency and, where absolutely necessary, on 
account of a breakdown making the infrastructure temporarily 
unusable, the train paths allocated may be withdrawn without 
warning for as long as is necessary to repair the system. 
The infrastructure manager may, if it deems this necessary, 
require railway undertakings to make available to it the 
resources which it feels are the most appropriate to restore 
the situation to normal as soon as possible. 
3. 
Member States may require railway undertakings to be 
involved in assuring the enforcement and monitoring of their 
own compliance with the safety standards and rules. 
SECTION 4 
Regulatory body 
Article 55 
Regulatory body 
1. 
Each Member State shall establish a single national regu­
latory body for the railway sector. Without prejudice to 
paragraph 2, this body shall be a stand-alone authority which 
is, in organisational, functional, hierarchical and decision- 
making terms, legally distinct and independent from any 
other public or private entity. It shall also be independent in 
its organisation, funding decisions, legal structure and decision- 
making from any infrastructure manager, charging body, allo­
cation body or applicant. It shall furthermore be functionally 
independent from any competent authority involved in the 
award of a public service contract. 
2. 
Member States may set up regulatory bodies which are 
competent for several regulated sectors, if these integrated regu­
latory authorities fulfil the independence requirements set out in 
paragraph 1 of this Article. The regulatory body for the rail 
sector may also be joined in organisational term with the 
national competition authority referred to in Article 11 of 
Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 
on the implementation of the rules on competition laid down 
in Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty ( 1 ), the safety authority 
established under Directive 2004/49/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on safety
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/57 
( 1 ) OJ L 1, 4.1.2003, p. 1. 
Editorial note: The title of Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 has 
been adjusted to take account of the renumbering of the articles of 
the Treaty establishing the European Community, in accordance 
with Article 5 of the Treaty of Lisbon; the original reference was: 
Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty.
on the Community's railways ( 1 ) or the licensing authority 
referred to in Chapter III of this Directive, if the joint body 
fulfils the independence requirements set out in paragraph 1 
of this Article. 
3. 
Member States shall ensure that the regulatory body is 
staffed and managed in a way that guarantees its independence. 
They shall, in particular, ensure that the persons in charge of 
decisions to be taken by the regulatory body in accordance with 
Article 56, such as members of its executive board, where 
relevant, be appointed under clear and transparent rules 
which guarantee their independence by the national cabinet 
or council of ministers or by any other public authority 
which does not directly exert ownership rights over regulated 
undertakings. 
Member States shall decide whether these persons are appointed 
for a fixed and renewable term, or on a permanent basis which 
only allows dismissal for disciplinary reasons not related to their 
decision-making. They shall be selected in a transparent 
procedure on the basis of their merit, including appropriate 
competence and relevant experience, preferably in the field of 
railways or other network industries. 
Member States shall ensure that these persons act independently 
from any market interest related to the railway sector, and shall 
therefore not have any interest or business relationship with any 
of the regulated undertakings or entities. To this effect, these 
persons shall make annually a declaration of commitment and a 
declaration of interests, indicating any direct or indirect interests 
that may be considered prejudicial to their independence and 
which might influence their performance of any function. These 
persons shall withdraw from decision-making in cases which 
concern an undertaking with which they had a direct or 
indirect connection during the year before the launch of a 
procedure. 
They shall not seek or take instructions from any government 
or other public or private entity when carrying out the 
functions of the regulatory body, and have full authority over 
the recruitment and management of the staff of the regulatory 
body. 
After their term in the regulatory body, they shall have no 
professional position or responsibility with any of the 
regulated undertakings or entities for a period of not less 
than one year. 
Article 56 
Functions of the regulatory body 
1. 
Without prejudice to Article 46(6), an applicant shall have 
the right to appeal to the regulatory body if it believes that it 
has been unfairly treated, discriminated against or is in any 
other way aggrieved, and in particular against decisions 
adopted by the infrastructure manager or where appropriate 
the railway undertaking or the operator of a service facility 
concerning: 
(a) the network statement in its provisional and final versions; 
(b) the criteria set out in it; 
(c) the allocation process and its result; 
(d) the charging scheme; 
(e) the level or structure of infrastructure charges which it is, or 
may be, required to pay; 
(f) arrangements for access in accordance with Articles 10 
to 13; 
(g) access to and charging for services in accordance with 
Article 13. 
2. 
Without prejudice to the powers of the national 
competition authorities for securing competition in the rail 
services markets, the regulatory body shall have the power to 
monitor the competitive situation in the rail services markets 
and shall, in particular, control points (a) to (g) of paragraph 1 
on its own initiative and with a view to preventing discrimi­
nation against applicants. It shall, in particular, check whether 
the network statement contains discriminatory clauses or creates 
discretionary powers for the infrastructure manager that may be 
used to discriminate against applicants. 
3. 
The regulatory body shall also cooperate closely with the 
national safety authority within the meaning of Directive 
2008/57/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
of 17 June 2008 on the interoperability of the rail system 
within the Community ( 2 ), and the licensing authority within 
the meaning of this Directive. 
Member States shall ensure that these authorities jointly develop 
a framework for information-sharing and cooperation aimed at 
preventing adverse effects on competition or safety in the 
railway market. This framework shall include a mechanism for 
the regulatory body to provide the national safety and licensing 
authorities with recommendations on issues that may affect 
competition in the railway market and for the national safety 
authority to provide the regulatory body and licensing authority 
with recommendations on issues that may affect safety. Without 
prejudice to the independence of each authority within the field 
of their respective competences, the relevant authority shall 
examine any such recommendation before adopting its deci­
sions. If the relevant authority decides to deviate from these 
recommendations, it shall give reasons in its decisions.
EN 
L 343/58 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ L 164, 30.4.2004, p. 44. 
( 2 ) OJ L 191, 18.7.2008, p. 1.
4. 
Member States may decide that the regulatory body is 
given the task to adopt non-binding opinions on the 
provisional versions of the business plan referred to in 
Article 8(3), the contractual agreement and the capacity- 
enhancement plan to indicate in particular whether these 
instruments are consistent with the competitive situation in 
the rail services markets. 
5. 
The regulatory body shall have the necessary organisa­
tional capacity in terms of human and material resources, 
which shall be proportionate to the importance of the rail 
sector in the Member State. 
6. 
The regulatory body shall ensure that charges set by the 
infrastructure manager comply with Section 2 of Chapter IV 
and are non-discriminatory. Negotiations between applicants 
and an infrastructure manager concerning the level of infra­
structure charges shall only be permitted if these are carried 
out under the supervision of the regulatory body. The regu­
latory body shall intervene if negotiations are likely to 
contravene the requirements of this Chapter. 
7. 
The regulatory body shall, regularly and, in any case, at 
least every two years, consult representatives of users of the rail 
freight and passenger transport services, to take into account 
their views on the rail market. 
8. 
The regulatory body shall have the power to request 
relevant information from the infrastructure manager, applicants 
and any third party involved within the Member State 
concerned. 
Information requested shall be supplied within a reasonable 
period set by the regulatory body that shall not exceed one 
month, unless, in exceptional circumstances, the regulatory 
body agrees to, and authorises, a time-limited extension, 
which shall not exceed two additional weeks. The regulatory 
body shall be able to enforce such requests with appropriate 
penalties, including fines. Information to be supplied to the 
regulatory body includes all data which the regulatory body 
requires in the framework of its appeal function and in its 
function of monitoring the competition in the rail services 
markets in accordance with paragraph 2. This includes data 
which are necessary for statistical and market observation 
purposes. 
9. 
The regulatory body shall consider any complaints and, as 
appropriate, shall ask for relevant information and initiate 
consultations with all relevant parties, within one month from 
the receipt of the complaint. It shall decide on any complaints, 
take action to remedy the situation and inform the relevant 
parties of its reasoned decision within a pre-determined, 
reasonable time, and, in any case, within six weeks from 
receipt of all relevant information. Without prejudice to the 
powers of the national competition authorities for securing 
competition in the rail service markets, the regulatory body 
shall, where appropriate, decide on its own initiative on appro­
priate measures to correct discrimination against applicants, 
market distortion and any other undesirable developments in 
these markets, in particular with reference to points (a) to (g) of 
paragraph 1. 
A decision of the regulatory body shall be binding on all parties 
covered by that decision, and shall not be subject to the control 
of another administrative instance. The regulatory body shall be 
able to enforce its decisions with the appropriate penalties, 
including fines. 
In the event of an appeal against a refusal to grant infrastructure 
capacity, or against the terms of an offer of capacity, the regu­
latory body shall either confirm that no modification of the 
infrastructure manager's decision is required, or it shall require 
modification of that decision in accordance with directions 
specified by the regulatory body. 
10. 
Member States shall ensure that decisions taken by the 
regulatory body are subject to judicial review. The appeal may 
have suspensive effect on the decision of the regulatory body 
only when the immediate effect of the regulatory body's 
decision may cause irretrievable or manifestly excessive 
damages for the appellant. This provision is without prejudice 
to the powers of the court hearing the appeal as conferred by 
constitutional law, where applicable. 
11. 
Member States shall ensure that decisions taken by the 
regulatory body are published. 
12. 
The regulatory body shall have the power to carry out 
audits or initiate external audits with infrastructure managers, 
operators of service facilities and, where relevant, railway under­
takings, to verify compliance with accounting separation 
provisions laid down in Article 6. In this respect, the regulatory 
body shall be entitled to request any relevant information. In 
particular the regulatory body shall have the power to request 
infrastructure manager, operators of service facilities and all 
undertakings or other entities performing or integrating 
different types of rail transport or infrastructure management 
as referred to in Article 6(1) and (2) and Article 13 to provide 
all or part of the accounting information listed in Annex VIII 
with a sufficient level of detail as deemed necessary and propor­
tionate. 
Without prejudice to the powers of the national authorities 
responsible for State aid issues, the regulatory body may also 
draw conclusions from the accounts concerning State aid issues 
which it shall report to those authorities. 
13. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 
acts in accordance with Article 60 concerning certain 
amendments to Annex VIII. Thus, Annex VIII may be 
amended to adapt it to the evolution of accounting and 
control practices and/or to supplement it with additional 
elements necessary to verify separation of accounts.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/59
Article 57 
Cooperation between regulatory bodies 
1. 
The regulatory bodies shall exchange information about 
their work and decision-making principles and practice and, in 
particular, exchange information on the main issues of their 
procedures and on the problems of interpreting transposed 
Union railway law. They shall otherwise cooperate for the 
purpose of coordinating their decision-making across the 
Union. For this purpose, they shall participate and work 
together in a network that convenes at regular intervals. The 
Commission shall be a member, coordinate and support the 
work of the network and make recommendations to the 
network, as appropriate. It shall ensure active cooperation of 
the appropriate regulatory bodies. 
Subject to the rules on data protection provided for in Directive 
95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with 
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free 
movement of such data ( 1 ) and Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 
2000 on the protection of individuals with regard to the 
processing of personal data by the Community institutions 
and bodies and on the free movement of such data ( 2 ), the 
Commission shall support the exchange of the information 
referred above among the members of the network, possibly 
through electronic tools, respecting the confidentiality of 
business secrets supplied by the relevant undertakings. 
2. 
The regulatory bodies shall cooperate closely, including 
through working arrangements, for the purposes of mutual 
assistance in their market monitoring tasks and handling 
complaints or investigations. 
3. 
In the case of a complaint or an own-initiative investi­
gation on issues of access or charging relating to an inter­
national train path, as well as in the framework of monitoring 
competition on the market related to international rail transport 
services, the regulatory body concerned shall consult the regu­
latory bodies of all other Member States through which the 
international train path concerned runs and, where appropriate, 
the Commission, and shall request all necessary information 
from them before taking its decision. 
4. 
The regulatory bodies consulted in accordance with 
paragraph 3 shall provide all the information that they them­
selves have the right to request under their national law. This 
information may only be used for the purpose of handling the 
complaint or investigation referred to in paragraph 3. 
5. 
The 
regulatory 
body 
receiving 
the 
complaint 
or 
conducting an investigation on its own initiative shall transfer 
relevant information to the regulatory body responsible in order 
for that body to take measures regarding the parties concerned. 
6. 
Member States shall ensure that any associated represen­
tatives of infrastructure managers as referred to in Article 40(1) 
provide, without delay, all the information necessary for the 
purpose of handling the complaint or investigation referred to 
in paragraph 3 of this Article and requested by the regulatory 
body of the Member State in which the associated representative 
is located. That regulatory body shall be entitled to transfer such 
information regarding the international train path concerned to 
the regulatory bodies referred to in paragraph 3. 
7. 
At the request of a regulatory body, the Commission may 
participate in the activities listed under paragraphs 2 to 6 for 
the purpose of facilitating the cooperation of regulatory bodies 
as outlined in those paragraphs. 
8. 
Regulatory bodies shall develop common principles and 
practices for making the decisions for which they are 
empowered under this Directive. Based on the experience of 
regulatory bodies and on the activities of the network referred 
to in paragraph 1, and, if needed, to ensure efficient 
cooperation of regulatory bodies, the Commission may adopt 
measures setting out such common principles and practices. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with 
the examination procedure referred to in Article 62(3). 
9. 
Regulatory bodies shall review decisions and practices of 
associations of infrastructure managers as referred to in 
Article 37 and Article 40(1) that implement provisions of this 
Directive or otherwise facilitate international rail transport. 
CHAPTER V 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
Article 58 
Public procurement rules 
The provisions of this Directive shall be without prejudice to 
Directive 2004/17/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 31 March 2004 coordinating the procurement 
procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, 
transport and postal services sectors ( 3 ). 
Article 59 
Derogations 
1. 
Until 15 March 2013, Ireland, as a Member State located 
on an island, with a rail link to only one other Member State, 
and the United Kingdom, in respect of Northern Ireland, on the 
same basis: 
(a) do not need to entrust to an independent body the 
functions determining equitable and non-discriminatory 
access to infrastructure, as provided for in the first 
subparagraph of Article 7(1) in so far as that Article 
obliges Member States to establish independent bodies 
performing the tasks referred to in Article 7(2);
EN 
L 343/60 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. 
( 2 ) OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1. 
( 3 ) OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 1.
(b) do not need to apply the requirements set out in Article 27, 
Article 29(2), Articles 38, 39 and 42, Article 46(4) and (6), 
Article 47, Article 49(3), and Articles 50 to 53, 55 and 56 
on condition that decisions on the allocation of infra­
structure capacity or the charging of fees are open to 
appeal, if so requested in writing by a railway undertaking, 
before an independent body which shall take its decision 
within two months of the submission of all relevant 
information and whose decision shall be subject to 
judicial review. 
2. 
Where more than one railway undertaking licensed in 
accordance with Article 17, or, in the case of Ireland and 
Northern Ireland, a railway company so licensed elsewhere, 
submits an official application to operate competing railway 
services in, to or from Ireland or Northern Ireland, the 
continued applicability of this derogation shall be decided 
upon in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to 
in Article 62(2). 
The derogations referred to in paragraph 1 shall not apply 
where a railway undertaking operating railway services in 
Ireland or Northern Ireland submits an official application to 
operate railway services on, to or from the territory of another 
Member State, with the exceptions of Ireland for railway under­
takings operating in Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom 
for railway undertakings operating in Ireland. 
Within one year from the receipt of either the decision referred 
to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph or notification of 
the official application referred to in the second subparagraph of 
this paragraph, the Member State or States concerned (Ireland 
or the United Kingdom with respect to Northern Ireland) shall 
put in place legislation to implement the Articles referred to in 
paragraph 1. 
3. 
A derogation referred to in paragraph 1 may be renewed 
for periods not longer than five years. Not later than 12 months 
before the expiry date of the derogation a Member State availing 
itself of that derogation may address a request to the 
Commission for a renewed derogation. Any such request shall 
be justified. The Commission shall examine such a request and 
adopt a decision in accordance with the advisory procedure 
referred to in Article 62(2). That procedure shall apply to any 
decision related to the request. 
When adopting its decision, the Commission shall take into 
account any development in the geopolitical situation and the 
development of the rail market in, from and to the Member 
State that requested the renewed derogation. 
Article 60 
Exercise of the delegation 
1. 
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the 
Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article. 
2. 
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in 
Article 20(5), Article 35(3), Article 43(2) and Article 56(13) 
shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of five 
years from 15 December 2012. The Commission shall draw 
up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later 
than nine months before the end of the five-year period. The 
delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an 
identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the 
Council opposes such extension not later than three months 
before the end of each period. 
3. 
The delegation of powers referred to in Article 20(5), 
Article 35(3), Article 43(2) and Article 56(13) may be 
revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the 
Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation 
of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the 
day following the publication of the decision in the Official 
Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified 
therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts 
already in force. 
4. 
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall 
notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the 
Council. 
5. 
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 20(5), 
Article 35(3), Article 43(2) and Article 56(13) shall enter into 
force only if no objection has been expressed either by the 
European Parliament or by the Council within a period of 
two months of notification of that act to the European 
Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that 
period, the European Parliament and the Council have both 
informed the Commission that they will not object. That 
period shall be extended by two months at the initiative of 
the European Parliament or of the Council. 
Article 61 
Measures of application 
At the request of a Member State, of a regulatory body or on its 
own initiative, the Commission shall examine specific measures 
adopted by national authorities in relation to the application of 
this Directive, concerning the conditions of access to railway 
infrastructure and services, the licensing of railway undertakings, 
infrastructure charging and capacity allocation within 12 
months after adoption of those measures. The Commission 
shall decide in accordance with the procedure referred to in 
Article 62(2) whether the related measure may continue to be 
applied within four months of receipt of such a request. 
Article 62 
Committee procedure 
1. 
The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. That 
committee shall be a committee within the meaning of Regu­
lation (EU) No 182/2011. 
2. 
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 4 of 
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/61
3. 
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of 
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. When the committee 
delivers no opinion on a draft implementing act to be adopted 
pursuant to Article 10(4), Article 11(4), Article 12(5), 
Article 13(9) and Article 17(5), Article 31(3) and (5), 
Article 32(4) and Article 57(8), the Commission shall not 
adopt the draft implementing act and the third subparagraph 
of Article 5(4) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 
Article 63 
Report 
1. 
By 31 December 2012 at the latest, the Commission shall 
submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the European 
Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the 
Regions a report on the implementation of Chapter II. This 
report shall also assess the development of the market, 
including the state of preparation of a further opening-up of 
the rail market. In its report the Commission shall also analyse 
the different models for organising this market and the impact 
of this Directive on public service contracts and their financing. 
In so doing, the Commission shall take into account the imple­
mentation of Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 and the intrinsic 
differences between Member States (density of networks, 
number of passengers, average travel distance). The Commission 
shall, if appropriate, propose legislative measures in relation to 
the opening of the domestic rail passenger market and to 
develop appropriate conditions to ensure non-discriminatory 
access to the infrastructure, building on the existing separation 
requirements between infrastructure management and transport 
operations, and shall assess the impact of any such measures. 
2. 
In light of the experience acquired through the network of 
regulatory bodies, the Commission shall, by 16 December 
2014, submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the 
European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee 
of Regions a report on cooperation between regulatory bodies. 
The Commission shall, if appropriate, propose complementary 
measures to ensure a more integrated regulatory oversight of 
the European rail market, in particular for international services. 
To that end, legislative measures shall also be considered, if 
appropriate. 
Article 64 
Transposition 
1. 
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations 
and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this 
Directive including as regards compliance by undertakings, 
operators, applicants, authorities and other entities concerned 
by 16 June 2015. They shall forthwith communicate to the 
Commission the text of those provisions. 
When Member States adopt those provisions, they shall contain 
a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a 
reference on the occasion of their official publication. They 
shall also include a statement that references in existing laws, 
regulations and administrative provisions to the Directives 
repealed by this Directive shall be construed as references to 
this Directive. Member States shall determine how such 
reference is to be made and how that statement is to be formu­
lated. 
2. 
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the 
text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in 
the field covered by this Directive. 
The obligations for transposition and implementation of 
Chapters II and IV of this Directive shall not apply to Cyprus 
and Malta for as long as no railway system is established within 
their territory. 
Article 65 
Repeal 
Directives 91/440/EEC, 95/18/EC and 2001/14/EC, as amended 
by the Directives listed in Annex IX, Part A, are repealed with 
effect from 15 December 2012, without prejudice to the 
obligations of the Member States relating to the time limits 
for transposition into national law of the Directives set out in 
Part B of Annex IX. 
References to the repealed Directives shall be construed as 
references to this Directive and shall be read in accordance 
with the correlation table in Annex X. 
Article 66 
Entry into force 
This Directive shall enter into force on the day following that of 
its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
Article 67 
Addressees 
This Directive is addressed to the Member States. 
Done at Strasbourg, 21 November 2012. 
For the European Parliament 
The President 
M. SCHULZ 
For the Council 
The President 
A. D. MAVROYIANNIS
EN 
L 343/62 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
ANNEX I 
LIST OF RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE ITEMS 
Railway infrastructure consists of the following items, provided they form part of the permanent way, including sidings, 
but excluding lines situated within railway repair workshops, depots or locomotive sheds, and private branch lines or 
sidings: 
— Ground area, 
— Track and track bed, in particular embankments, cuttings, drainage channels and trenches, masonry trenches, culverts, 
lining walls, planting for protecting side slopes, etc.; passenger and goods platforms, including in passenger stations 
and freight terminals; four-foot way and walkways; enclosure walls, hedges, fencing; fire protection strips; apparatus 
for heating points; crossings etc.; snow protection screens, 
— Engineering structures: bridges, culverts and other overpasses, tunnels, covered cuttings and other underpasses; 
retaining walls, structures for protection against avalanches, falling stones, etc., 
— Level crossings, including appliances to ensure the safety of road traffic, 
— Superstructure, in particular: rails, grooved rails and check rails; sleepers and longitudinal ties, small fittings for the 
permanent way, ballast including stone chippings and sand; points, crossings, etc.; turntables and traverses (except 
those reserved exclusively for locomotives), 
— Access way for passengers and goods, including access by road and access for passengers arriving or departing on 
foot, 
— Safety, signalling and telecommunications installations on the open track, in stations and in marshalling yards, 
including plant for generating, transforming and distributing electric current for signalling and telecommunications; 
buildings for such installations or plant; track brakes, 
— Lighting installations for traffic and safety purposes, 
— Plant for transforming and carrying electric power for train haulage: substations, supply cables between substations 
and contact wires, catenaries and supports; third rail with supports, 
— Buildings used by the infrastructure department, including a proportion of installations for the collection of transport 
charges.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/63
ANNEX II 
SERVICES TO BE SUPPLIED TO THE RAILWAY UNDERTAKINGS 
(referred to in Article 13) 
1. The minimum access package shall comprise: 
(a) handling of requests for railway infrastructure capacity; 
(b) the right to utilise capacity which is granted; 
(c) use of the railway infrastructure, including track points and junctions; 
(d) train control including signalling, regulation, dispatching and the communication and provision of information on 
train movement; 
(e) use of electrical supply equipment for traction current, where available; 
(f) all other information required to implement or operate the service for which capacity has been granted. 
2. Access, including track access, shall be given to the following services facilities, when they exist, and to the services 
supplied in these facilities: 
(a) passenger stations, their buildings and other facilities, including travel information display and suitable location for 
ticketing services; 
(b) freight terminals; 
(c) marshalling yards and train formation facilities, including shunting facilities; 
(d) storage sidings; 
(e) maintenance facilities, with the exception of heavy maintenance facilities dedicated to high-speed trains or to other 
types of rolling stock requiring specific facilities; 
(f) other technical facilities, including cleaning and washing facilities; 
(g) maritime and inland port facilities which are linked to rail activities; 
(h) relief facilities; 
(i) refuelling facilities and supply of fuel in these facilities, charges for which shall be shown on the invoices 
separately. 
3. Additional services may comprise: 
(a) traction current, charges for which shall be shown on the invoices separately from charges for using the electrical 
supply equipment, without prejudice to the application of Directive 2009/72/EC; 
(b) pre-heating of passenger trains; 
(c) tailor-made contracts for: 
— control of transport of dangerous goods, 
— assistance in running abnormal trains. 
4. Ancillary services may comprise: 
(a) access to telecommunication networks; 
(b) provision of supplementary information; 
(c) technical inspection of rolling stock; 
(d) ticketing services in passenger stations; 
(e) heavy maintenance services supplied in maintenance facilities dedicated to high-speed trains or to other types of 
rolling stock requiring specific facilities.
EN 
L 343/64 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
ANNEX III 
FINANCIAL FITNESS 
(referred to in Article 20) 
The information to be provided by undertakings applying for a licence in accordance with Article 20 covers the following 
aspects: 
(a) available funds, including the bank balance, pledged overdraft provisions and loans; 
(b) funds and assets available as security; 
(c) working capital; 
(d) relevant costs, including purchase costs of payments to account for vehicles, land, buildings, installations and rolling 
stock; 
(e) charges on an undertaking's assets; 
(f) taxes and social security contributions.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/65
ANNEX IV 
CONTENTS OF THE NETWORK STATEMENT 
(referred to in Article 27) 
The network statement referred to in Article 27 shall contain the following information: 
1. A section setting out the nature of the infrastructure which is available to railway undertakings and the conditions of 
access to it. The information in this section shall be made consistent, on an annual basis with, or shall refer to, the rail 
infrastructure registers to be published in accordance with Article 35 of Directive 2008/57/EC. 
2. A section on charging principles and tariffs. This shall contain appropriate details of the charging scheme as well as 
sufficient information on charges as well as other relevant information on access applying to the services listed in 
Annex II which are provided by only one supplier. It shall detail the methodology, rules and, where applicable, scales 
used for the application of Articles 31 to 36, as regards both costs and charges. It shall contain information on 
changes in charges already decided upon or foreseen in the next five years, if available. 
3. A section on the principles and criteria for capacity allocation. This shall set out the general capacity characteristics of 
the infrastructure which is available to railway undertakings and any restrictions relating to its use, including likely 
capacity requirements for maintenance. It shall also specify the procedures and deadlines which relate to the capacity- 
allocation process. It shall contain specific criteria which are employed during that process, in particular: 
(a) the procedures according to which applicants may request capacity from the infrastructure manager; 
(b) the requirements governing applicants; 
(c) the schedule for the application and allocation processes and the procedures which shall be followed to request 
information on the scheduling and the procedures for scheduling planned and unforeseen maintenance work; 
(d) the principles governing the coordination process and the dispute resolution system made available as part of this 
process; 
(e) the procedures which shall be followed and criteria used where infrastructure is congested; 
(f) details of restrictions on the use of infrastructure; 
(g) conditions by which account is taken of previous levels of utilisation of capacity in determining priorities for the 
allocation process. 
It shall detail the measures taken to ensure adequate treatment of freight services, international services and requests 
subject to the ad hoc procedure. It shall contain a template form for capacity requests. The infrastructure manager shall 
also publish detailed information about the allocation procedures for international train paths. 
4. A section on information relating to the application for a licence referred to in Article 25 of this Directive and rail 
safety certificates issued in accordance with Directive 2004/49/EC or indicating a website where such information is 
made available free of charge in electronic format. 
5. A section on information about procedures for dispute resolution and appeal relating to matters of access to rail 
infrastructure and services and to the performance scheme referred to in Article 35. 
6. A section on information on access to and charging for service facilities referred to in Annex II. Operators of service 
facilities which are not controlled by the infrastructure manager shall supply information on charges for gaining access 
to the facility and for the provision of services, and information on technical access conditions for inclusion in the 
network statement or shall indicate a website where such information is made available free of charge in electronic 
format. 
7. A model agreement for the conclusion of framework agreements between an infrastructure manager and an applicant 
in accordance with Article 42.
EN 
L 343/66 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
ANNEX V 
BASIC PRINCIPLES AND PARAMETERS OF CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN COMPETENT 
AUTHORITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGERS 
(referred to in Article 30) 
The contractual agreement shall specify the provisions of Article 30 and include at least the following elements: 
(1) the scope of the agreement as regards infrastructure and service facilities, structured in accordance with Annex II. It 
shall cover all aspects of infrastructure management, including maintenance and renewal of the infrastructure already 
in operation. Where appropriate, construction of new infrastructure may also be covered; 
(2) the structure of payments or funds allocated to the infrastructure services listed in Annex II, to maintenance and 
renewal and to dealing with existing maintenance and renewal backlogs. Where appropriate, the structure of 
payments or funds allocated to new infrastructure may be covered; 
(3) user-oriented performance targets, in the form of indicators and quality criteria covering elements such as: 
(a) train performance, such as in terms of line speed and reliability, and customer satisfaction, 
(b) network capacity, 
(c) asset management, 
(d) activity volumes, 
(e) safety levels, and 
(f) environmental protection; 
(4) the amount of possible maintenance backlog and the assets which will be phased out of use and therefore trigger 
different financial flows; 
(5) the incentives referred to in Article 30(1), with the exception of those incentives implemented through regulatory 
measures in accordance with Article 30(3); 
(6) minimum reporting obligations for the infrastructure manager in terms of content and frequency of reporting, 
including information to be published annually; 
(7) the agreed duration of the agreement, which shall be synchronised and consistent with the duration of the infra­
structure manager's business plan, concession or licence, where appropriate, and the charging framework and rules set 
by the State; 
(8) rules for dealing with major disruptions of operations and emergency situations, including contingency plans and 
early termination of the contractual agreement, and timely information to users; 
(9) remedial measures to be taken if either of the parties is in breach of its contractual obligations, or in exceptional 
circumstances affecting the availability of public funding; this includes conditions and procedures for renegotiation 
and early termination.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/67
ANNEX VI 
REQUIREMENTS FOR COSTS AND CHARGES RELATED TO RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE 
(referred to in Article 32(1) and Article 35) 
1. The pairs to be considered by infrastructure managers when they define a list of market segments with a view to 
introducing mark-ups in the charging system according to Article 32(1) include at least the following: 
(a) passenger versus freight services; 
(b) trains carrying dangerous goods versus other freight trains; 
(c) domestic versus international services; 
(d) combined transport versus direct trains; 
(e) urban or regional versus interurban passenger services; 
(f) block trains versus single wagon load trains; 
(g) regular versus occasional train services. 
2. The performance scheme as referred to in Article 35 shall be based on the following basic principles: 
(a) In order to achieve an agreed level of performance and not to endanger the economic viability of a service, the 
infrastructure manager shall agree with applicants the main parameters of the performance scheme, in particular 
the value of delays, the thresholds for payments due under the performance scheme relative both to individual 
train runs and to all train runs of a railway undertaking in a given period of time; 
(b) The infrastructure manager shall communicate to the railway undertakings the working timetable, on the basis of 
which delays will be calculated, at least five days before the train run. The infrastructure manager may apply a 
shorter notice period in case of force majeure or late alterations of the working timetable; 
(c) All delays shall be attributable to one of the following delay classes and sub-classes: 
1. 
Operation/planning management attributable to the infrastructure manager 
1.1. Timetable compilation 
1.2. Formation of train 
1.3. Mistakes in operations procedure 
1.4. Wrong application of priority rules 
1.5. Staff 
1.6. Other causes 
2. 
Infrastructure installations attributable to the infrastructure manager 
2.1. Signalling installations 
2.2. Signalling installations at level crossings 
2.3. Telecommunications installations 
2.4. Power supply equipment 
2.5. Track 
2.6. Structures 
2.7. Staff 
2.8. Other causes 
3. 
Civil engineering causes attributable to the infrastructure manager 
3.1. Planned construction work
EN 
L 343/68 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
3.2. Irregularities in execution of construction work 
3.3. Speed restriction due to defective track 
3.4. Other causes 
4. 
Causes attributable to other infrastructure managers 
4.1. Caused by previous infrastructure manager 
4.2. Caused by next infrastructure manager 
5. 
Commercial causes attributable to the railway undertaking 
5.1. Exceeding the stop time 
5.2. Request of the railway undertaking 
5.3. Loading operations 
5.4. Loading irregularities 
5.5. Commercial preparation of train 
5.6. Staff 
5.7. Other causes 
6. 
Rolling stock attributable to the railway undertaking 
6.1. Roster planning/rerostering 
6.2. Formation of train by railway undertaking 
6.3. Problems affecting coaches (passenger transport) 
6.4. Problems affecting wagons (freight transport) 
6.5. Problems affecting cars, locomotives and rail cars 
6.6. Staff 
6.7. Other causes 
7. 
Causes attributable to other railway undertakings 
7.1. Caused by next railway undertaking 
7.2. Caused by previous railway undertaking 
8. 
External causes attributable to neither infrastructure manager nor railway undertaking 
8.1. Strike 
8.2. Administrative formalities 
8.3. Outside influence 
8.4. Effects of weather and natural causes 
8.5. Delay due to external reasons on the next network 
8.6. Other causes 
9. 
Secondary causes attributable to neither infrastructure manager nor railway undertaking 
9.1. Dangerous incidents, accidents and hazards
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/69
9.2. Track occupation caused by the lateness of the same train 
9.3. Track occupation caused by the lateness of another train 
9.4. Turn-around 
9.5. Connection 
9.6. Further investigation needed; 
(d) Wherever possible, delays shall be attributed to a single organisation, considering both the responsibility for 
causing the disruption and the ability to re-establish normal traffic conditions; 
(e) The calculation of payments shall take into account the average delay of train services of similar punctuality 
requirements; 
(f) The infrastructure manager shall, as soon as possible, communicate to the railway undertakings a calculation of 
payments due under the performance scheme. This calculation shall encompass all delayed train runs within a 
period of at most one month; 
(g) Without prejudice to the existing appeal procedures and to the provisions of Article 56, in the case of disputes 
relating to the performance scheme, a dispute resolution system shall be made available in order to settle such 
matters promptly. This dispute resolution system shall be impartial towards the parties involved. If this system is 
applied, a decision shall be reached within a time limit of 10 working days; 
(h) Once a year, the infrastructure manager shall publish the annual average level of performance achieved by the 
railway undertakings on the basis of the main parameters agreed in the performance scheme.
EN 
L 343/70 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
ANNEX VII 
SCHEDULE FOR THE ALLOCATION PROCESS 
(referred to in Article 43) 
1. The working timetable shall be established once per calendar year. 
2. The change of working timetable shall take place at midnight on the second Saturday in December. Where a change or 
adjustment is carried out after the winter, in particular to take account, where appropriate, of changes in regional 
passenger traffic timetables, it shall take place at midnight on the second Saturday in June and at such other intervals 
between these dates as are required. Infrastructure managers may agree on different dates and in this case they shall 
inform the Commission if international traffic may be affected. 
3. The final date for receipt of requests for capacity to be incorporated into the working timetable shall be no more than 
12 months in advance of the entry into force of the working timetable. 
4. No later than 11 months before the working timetable comes into force, the infrastructure managers shall ensure that 
provisional international train paths have been established in cooperation with other relevant infrastructure managers. 
Infrastructure managers shall ensure that as far as possible these are adhered to during the subsequent processes. 
5. No later than four months after the deadline for submission of bids by applicants, the infrastructure manager shall 
prepare a draft working timetable.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/71
ANNEX VIII 
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED TO THE REGULATORY BODY UPON REQUEST 
(referred to in Article 56(12)) 
1. Account separation 
(a) separate profit and loss accounts and balance sheets for freight, passenger and infrastructure management activities; 
(b) detailed information on individual sources and uses of public funds and other forms of compensation in a 
transparent and detailed manner, including a detailed review of the businesses' cash flows in order to 
determine in what way these public funds and other forms of compensation have been used; 
(c) cost and profit categories making it possible to determine whether cross-subsidies between these different activities 
occurred, according to the requirements of the regulatory body; 
(d) methodology used to allocate costs between different activities; 
(e) where the regulated firm is part of a group structure, full details of inter-company payments. 
2. Monitoring of track access charges 
(a) different cost categories, in particular providing sufficient information on marginal/direct costs of the different 
services or groups of services so that infrastructure charges can be monitored; 
(b) sufficient information to allow monitoring of the individual charges paid for services (or groups of services); if 
required by the regulatory body, this information shall contain data on volumes of individual services, prices for 
individual services and total revenues for individual services paid by internal and external customers; 
(c) costs and revenues for individual services (or groups of services) using the relevant cost methodology, as required 
by the regulatory body, to identify potentially anti-competitive pricing (cross-subsidies, predatory pricing and 
excessive pricing). 
3. Indication of financial performance 
(a) a statement of financial performance; 
(b) a summary expenditure statement; 
(c) a maintenance expenditure statement; 
(d) an operating expenditure statement; 
(e) an income statement; 
(f) supporting notes that amplify and explain the statements, where appropriate.
EN 
L 343/72 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
ANNEX IX 
PART A 
REPEALED DIRECTIVES WITH LIST OF SUCCESSIVE AMENDMENTS 
(referred to in Article 65) 
Council Directive 91/440/EEC 
(OJ L 237, 24.8.1991, p. 25) 
Directive 2001/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 75, 15.3.2001, p. 1) 
Directive 2004/51/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 164, 30.4.2004, p. 164) 
Council Directive 2006/103/EC 
(OJ L 363, 20.12.2006, p. 344) 
only Point B of the Annex 
Directive 2007/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 315, 3.12.2007, p. 44) 
only Article 1 
Council Directive 95/18/EC 
(OJ L 143, 27.6.1995, p. 70) 
Directive 2001/13/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 75, 15.3.2001, p. 26) 
Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 164, 30.4.2004, p. 44) 
only Article 29 
Directive 2001/14/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 75, 15.3.2001, p. 29) 
Commission Decision 2002/844/EC 
(OJ L 289, 26.10.2002, p. 30) 
Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 164, 30.4.2004, p. 44) 
only Article 30 
Directive 2007/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council 
(OJ L 315, 3.12.2007, p. 44) 
only Article 2 
PART B 
LIST OF TIME LIMITS FOR TRANSPOSITION INTO NATIONAL LAW 
(referred to in Article 65) 
Directive 
Time limit for transposition 
91/440/EEC 
1 January 1993 
95/18/EC 
27 June 1997 
2001/12/EC 
15 March 2003 
2001/13/EC 
15 March 2003 
2001/14/EC 
15 March 2003 
2004/49/EC 
30 April 2006 
2004/51/EC 
31 December 2005 
2006/103/EC 
1 January 2007 
2007/58/EC 
4 June 2009
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/73
ANNEX X 
CORRELATION TABLE 
Directive 91/440/EEC 
Directive 95/18/EC 
Directive 2001/14/EC 
This Directive 
Article 2(1) 
Article 1(1) 
Article 1(1), first 
subparagraph 
Article 1(1) 
Article 1(2) 
Article 1(2) 
Article 2(2) 
Article 2(1) 
Article 1(2) 
Article 2(2) 
Article 1(3) 
Article 2(3) 
Article 2(4) to (9) 
Article 2(4) 
Article 2(10) 
Article 2(11) 
Article 3 
Article 3(1) to (8) 
Article 3(9) to (13) 
Article 2(b) and (c) 
Article 3(14) and (15) 
Article 3(16) and (17) 
Article 2 
Article 3(18) to (28) 
Article 3(29) and (30) 
Article 4 
Article 4 
Article 5 
Article 5(1) to (3) 
Article 5(4) 
Article 6(1) and (2) 
Article 6(1) and (2) 
Article 9(4) 
Article 6(3) 
Article 6(1) second 
subparagraph 
Article 6(4) 
Article 6(3) and Annex II 
Article 7(1) 
Article 4(2) and 
Article 14(2) 
Article 7(2)
EN 
L 343/74 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
Directive 91/440/EEC 
Directive 95/18/EC 
Directive 2001/14/EC 
This Directive 
Article 7(1), (3) and (4) 
Article 8(1), (2) and (3) 
Article 6(1) 
Article 8(4) 
Article 9(1) and (2) 
Article 9(1) and (2) 
Article 10(3) and (3a) 
Article 10(1) and (2) 
Article 10(3b) 
Article 11(1), (2) and (3) 
Article 11(4) 
Article 10(3c) and (3e) 
Article 11(5) and (6) 
Article 10(3f) 
Article 12(1) to (4) 
Article 12(5) 
Article 5 
Article 13 
Article 14 
Article 10b 
Article 15 
Article 3 
Article 16 
Article 4(1) to (4) 
Article 17(1) to (4) 
Article 5 
Article 18 
Article 6 
Article 19 
Article 7(1) 
Article 20(1) 
Annex, Part I, point (1) 
Article 20(2) 
Article 20(3) 
Article 8 
Article 21 
Article 9 
Article 22 
Article 4(5) 
Article 23(1) 
Article 10 
Article 23(2) and (3) 
Article 11 
Article 24 
Article 15 
Article 25 
Article 1(1), second 
subparagraph 
Article 26 
Article 3 
Article 27 
Article 10(5) 
Article 28
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/75
Directive 91/440/EEC 
Directive 95/18/EC 
Directive 2001/14/EC 
This Directive 
Article 4(1) and (3) to (6) 
Article 29 
Article 6(2) to (5) 
Article 30 
Article 7 
Article 31 
Article 8 
Article 32 
Article 9 
Article 33 
Article 10 
Article 34 
Article 11 
Article 35 
Article 12 
Article 36 
Article 37 
Article 13 
Article 38 
Article 14(1) and (3) 
Article 39 
Article 15 
Article 40 
Article 16 
Article 41 
Article 17 
Article 42 
Article 18 
Article 43 
Article 19 
Article 44 
Article 20(1), (2) and (3) 
Article 45(1), (2) and (3) 
Article 45(4) 
Article 20(4) 
Article 45(5) 
Article 21 
Article 46 
Article 22 
Article 47 
Article 23 
Article 48 
Article 24 
Article 49 
Article 25 
Article 50
EN 
L 343/76 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
Directive 91/440/EEC 
Directive 95/18/EC 
Directive 2001/14/EC 
This Directive 
Article 26 
Article 51 
Article 27 
Article 52 
Article 28 
Article 53 
Article 29 
Article 54 
Article 30(1) 
Article 55 
Article 30(2) 
Article 56(1) 
Article 31 
Article 57 
Article 12 
Article 58 
Article 14a 
Article 33(1), (2) and (3) 
Article 59 
Article 60 
Article 34(2) 
Article 61 
Article 11a 
Article 35(1), (2) and (3) 
Article 62 
Article 10(9) 
Article 63 
Article 38 
Article 64 
Article 65 
Article 17 
Article 39 
Article 66 
Article 16 
Article 18 
Article 40 
Article 67 
Annex I 
Annex II 
Annex II 
Annex 
Annex III 
Annex I 
Annex IV 
Annex V 
Annex VI 
Annex III 
Annex VII 
Annex VIII
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/77
