No L 143/70
( EN
Official Journal of the European Communities
27. 6. 95
COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 95/18/EC
of 19 June 1995
on the licensing of railway undertakings
Whereas Community conditions for access to or transit
via railway infrastructure will be regulated by other provi­
sions of Community law ;
Whereas, having regard to the principle of subsidiarity
and in order to ensure the requisite uniformity and trans­
parency, it is appropriate that the Community lay down
the broad principles of such a licensing system, leaving to
Member States the responsibility for the granting and the
administration of licences ;
Whereas, in order to ensure dependable and adequate
services, it is necessary to ensure that railway undertakings
meet at any time certain requirements in relation to good
repute, financial fitness and professional competence ;
Whereas for the protection of customers and third parties
concerned it is important to ensure that railway under­
takings are sufficiently insured or have made equivalent
arrangements in respect of liability risks ;
Whereas the suspension and revocation of licences and
the granting of temporary licences should also be dealt
with in this context ;
Whereas a railway undertaking will also be required to
comply with national and Community rules on the provi­
sion of railway services, applied in a non-discriminatory
manner, which are intended to ensure that it can carry on
its activity in complete safety on specific stretches of
track ;
Whereas, in order to ensure the efficient operation of
international rail transport, it is necessary that railway
undertakings respect the agreements in force in this field ;
Whereas, finally, the procedures for the granting, mainte­
nance and amendment of operating licences to railway
undertakings should reflect a general desire for transpa­
rency and non-discrimination,
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European
Community, and in particular Article 75 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ('),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social
Committee (2),
Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in
Article 189c of the Treaty (3),
Whereas the single market shall comprise an area without
internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods,
persons, services and capital is ensured ;
Whereas the principle of the freedom to provide services
should be applied to the railway sector, taking into
account that sector's specific characteristics ;
Whereas Council Directive 91/440/EEC of 29 July 1991
on the development of the Community's railways (4)
provides for certain access rights in international rail
transport for railway undertakings and international grou­
pings of railway undertakings ;
Whereas, in order to ensure that access rights to railway
infrastructure are applied throughout the Community on
a uniform and non-discriminatory basis, it is appropriate
to introduce a licence for railway undertakings providing
the
services
referred
to
in
Article
10
of
Directive
91/440/EEC ;
Whereas it is appropriate to maintain the scope of Direc­
tive 91/440/EEC, including the exceptions made in it for
regional, urban and suburban services and whereas it
should be specified that transport activities in the form of
shutde services through the Channel Tunnel are also
excluded from the scope of that Directive ;
Whereas a licence issued by a Member State should accor­
dingly be recognized as valid throughout the Commu­
nity ;
HAS ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE :
SECTION I
(') OJ No C 24, 28. 1 . 1994, p. 2 and OJ No C 225, 13. 8. 1994,
p. 9.
(2) Opinion delivered on 14 September 1994 (OJ No C 393, 31 .
12. 1994, p. 56).
(3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 3 May 1994 (OJ No
C 205, 25. 7. 1994, p. 38), Council Common Position of 21
November 1994 (OJ No C 354 of 13. 12. 1994, p. 11 ) and De­
cision of the European Parliament of 14 March 1995 (OJ No
C 89, 10. 4. 1995, p. 30).
O OJ No L 237, 24. 8. 1991 , p. 25.
Objective and Scope
Article 1
1 .
This Directive concerns the criteria applicable to the
issue, renewal or amendment of licences by a Member
State intended for railway undertakings which are or will
27. 6. 95
riFn
Official Journal of the European Communities
No L 143/71
3.
A railway undertaking which fulfils the requirements
imposed in this Directive shall be authorized to receive a
licence.
4.
No
railway undertaking shall be
permitted
to
provide the rail transport services covered by this Direc­
tive unless it has been granted the appropriate licence for
the services to be provided.
However, such a licence shall not itself entitle the holder
to access to the railway infrastructure.
Article 5
1 .
A railway undertaking must be able to demonstrate
to
the
licensing
authorities
of
the
Member
State
concerned before the start of its activities that it will at
any time be able to meet the requirements relating to
good repute, financial fitness, professional competence
and cover for its civil liability listed in Articles 6 to 9.
2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 , each applicant shall
provide all relevant information.
be established in the Community when they provide the
services referred to in Article 10 of Directive 91/440/EEC
under the conditions laid down in that Article.
2.
Railway undertakings the activities of which are
limited to the operation of urban, suburban or regional
services shall be excluded from the scope of this Direc­
tive.
Railway undertakings and international groupings the
activity of which is limited to the provision of shuttle
services transporting road vehicles through the Channel
Tunnel shall also be excluded from the scope of this
Directive.
3.
A licence shall be valid throughout the territory of
the Community.
Article 2
For the purposes of this Directive :
(a) 'railway undertaking' shall mean any private or public
undertaking the main business of which is to provide
rail transport services for goods and/or passengers,
with a requirement that the undertaking must ensure
traction ;
(b) 'licence' shall mean an authorization issued by a
Member State to an undertaking, by which its capacity
as
a
railway
undertaking
is
recognized.
That
capacity may be limited to the provision of specific
types of services ;
(c) 'licensing authority' shall mean the body charged by a
Member State with the issue of licences.
(d) — 'urban and suburban services' shall mean transport
services operated to meet the transport needs of an
urban centre or conurbation, as well as the trans­
port needs between such centre or conurbation
and surrounding areas ;
— 'regional services' shall mean transport services
operated to meet the transport needs of a region.
Article 3
Each Member State shall designate the body responsible
for issuing licences and for carrying out the obligations
imposed by this Directive.
Article 6
Member States shall define the conditions under which
the requirement of good repute is met to ensure that an
applicant railway undertaking or the persons in charge of
its management :
— has/have
not
been
convicted
of
serious
criminal
offences, including offences of a commercial nature,
— has/have not been declared bankrupt,
— has/have
not
been
convicted
of
serious
offences
against specific legislation applicable to transport,
— has/have not been convicted of serious or repeated
failure to fulfil social- or labour-law obligations, inclu­
ding obligations under occupational safety and health
legislation.
SECTION II
Licences
Article 4
1 .
A railway undertaking shall be entitled to apply for a
licence in the Member State in which it is established.
2.
Member States shall not issue licences or extend
their validity where the requirements of this Directive are
not complied with.
Article 7
1 .
The requirements relating to financial fitness shall
be met when an applicant railway undertaking can
demonstrate that it will be able to meet its actual and
potential obligations, established under realistic assump­
tions, for a period of twelve months.
2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 , each applicant shall
give at least the particulars listed in section I of the
Annex.
No L 143/72
I EN
I
Official Journal of the European Communities
27. 6. 95
where a licensing authority is satisfied that a railway
undertaking can no longer meet the requirements of the
Directive, and in particular Article 5 thereof, it shall
suspend or revoke the licence.
2.
Where the licensing authority of a Member State is
satisfied that there is serious doubt regarding compliance
with the requirements laid down in this Directive on the
part of a railway undertaking to which a licence has been
issued by the licensing authority of another Member State,
it shall inform the latter authority without delay.
Article 8
1 .
The requirements relating to professional compe­
tence shall be met when :
(a) an applicant railway undertaking has or will have a
management organization which possesses the know­
ledge and/or experience necessary to exercise safe and
reliable operational control and supervision of the
type of operations specified in the licence,
(b) its personnel responsible for safety, in particular
drivers, are fully qualified for their field of activity and
(c) its personnel, rolling stock and organization can
ensure a high level of safety for the services to be
provided.
2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 , each applicant shall
give at least the particulars listed in section II of the
Annex.
3.
Appropriate written proof of compliance with quali­
fication requirements shall be produced.
3.
Notwithstanding paragraph
1 , where a licence is
suspended or revoked on grounds of non-compliance
with the requirement for financial fitness, the licensing
authority may grant a temporary licence pending the
re-organization of the railway undertaking, provided that
safety is not jeopardized. A temporary licence shall not,
however, be valid for more than six months after its date
of issue.
Article 9
A railway undertaking shall be adequately insured or
make equivalent arrangements for cover, in accordance
with national and international law, of its liabilities in the
event of accidents, in particular in respect of passengers,
luggage, freight, mail and third parties.
SECTION III
Validity of the licence
4.
When a railway undertaking has ceased operations
for six months or has not started operations six months
after the grant of a licence, the licensing authority may
decide that the licence shall be submitted for approval or
be suspended.
As
regards
the
start
of
activities,
the
railway
undertaking may ask for a longer period to be fixed,
taking account of the specific nature of the services to be
provided.
5.
In the event of a change affecting the legal situation
of an undertaking and, in particular, in the event of a
merger or takeover, the licensing authority may decide
that the licence shall be resubmitted for approval. The
railway undertaking in question may continue operations,
unless the licensing authority decides that safety is jeopar­
dized ; in that event, the grounds for such a decision shall
be given.
6.
Where a railway undertaking intends significantly to
change or extend its activities, its licence shall be resub­
mitted to the licensing authority for review.
7.
A licensing authority shall not permit a railway
undertaking against which bankruptcy or similar procee­
dings are commenced to retain its licence if that authority
is convinced that there is no realistic prospect of satisfac­
tory financial restructuring within a reasonable period of
time.
Article 10
1 .
A licence shall be valid as long as the railway under­
taking fulfils the obligations laid down in this Directive.
A licensing authority may, however, make provision for a
regular review at least every five years.
2.
Specific provisions governing the suspension or
revocation of a licence may be incorporated in the licence
itself.
Article 11
1 .
If there is serious doubt that a railway undertaking
which it has licensed complies with the requirements of
this Directive, and in particular Article 5 thereof, the
licensing authority may, at any time, check whether that
railway undertaking does in fact comply with those requi­
rements.
8 .
When a licensing authority suspends, revokes or
amends a licence, the Member State concerned shall
immediately inform the Commission accordingly. The
Commission shall inform the other Member States forth­
with.
27. 6. 95
EN
Official Journal of the European Communities
No L 143/73
lars referred to in the Annex, has been submitted, taking
into account all the available information. The decision
shall be communicated to the applicant railway under­
taking. A refusal shall state the grounds therefore.
3.
Member States shall take the measures necessary to
ensure that the licensing authority's decisions are subject
to judicial review.
Article 16
1 .
The Commission shall, two years after the applica­
tion of this Directive, submit to the Council a report on
such application accompanied, if necessary, by proposals
concerning continued Community action, with particular
regard to the possibility of enlarging the scope of the
Directive.
2.
Member States shall adopt the laws, regulations and
administrative provisions necessary to comply with this
Directive within two years of the date of its entry into
force. They shall
forthwith
inform
the
Commission
thereof.
3.
When Member States adopt those provisions, they
shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accom­
panied by such reference at the time of their official
publication. The methods of making such a reference
shall be laid down by the Member States.
Article 17
This Directive shall enter into force on the date of its
publication in the Official Journal of the European
Communities.
Article 18
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Article 12
In addition to the requirements of this Directive, a
railway undertaking shall also comply with those provi­
sions of national law which are compatible with Commu­
nity law and are applied in a non-discriminatory manner,
in particular :
— specific technical and operational requirements for
rail services,
— safety requirements applying to staff, rolling stock and
the internal organization of the undertaking,
— provisions on health, safety, social conditions and the
rights of workers and consumers.
Article 13
Railway undertakings shall respect the agreements applic­
able to international rail transport in force in the Member
States in which they operate.
SECTION IV
Transitional provision
Article 14
Railway undertakings operating rail services shall be
granted a transitional period of twelve months as at the
final date of transposition referred to in Article 16 (2) in
order to comply with the provisions of this Directive.
That transitional period shall not cover any provision
which might affect the safety of railway operations.
SECTION V
Final provisions
Article 15
1 .
The procedures for the granting of licences shall be
made public by the Member State concerned, which shall
inform the Commission thereof.
2.
The licensing authority shall take a decision on an
application as soon as possible, but not more than three
months after all relevant information, notably the particu­
Done at Luxembourg, 19 June 1995.
For the Council
The President
B. PONS
No L 143/74
HEN
|
Official Journal of the European Communities
27. 6. 95
ANNEX
I. Particulars referred to in Article 7 (2)
1 . Financial fitness will be verified by means of an undertaking's annual accounts or, in the case of applicant
undertakings unable to present annual accounts, a balance sheet Detailed particulars must be provided, in
particular on the following aspects :
(a) available funds, including the bank balance, pledged overdraft provisions and loans ;
(b) funds and assets available as security ;
(c) working capital ;
(d) relevant costs, including purchase ^costs of payments to account for vehicles, land, buildings, installa­
tions and rolling stock ;
(e) charges on an undertaking's assets.
2. In particular, an applicant is not financially fit if considerable arrears of taxes or social security are owed
as a result of the undertaking's activity.
3. The authority may in particular require the submission of an audit report and suitable documents from a
bank, public savings bank, accountant or auditor. These documents must include information concerning
the matters referred to in paragraph
1 .
II. Particulars referred to in Article 8 (2)
1 . Particulars of the nature and maintenance of rolling stock, in particular as regards safety standards.
2. Particulars of the qualifications of personnel responsible for safety and details of personnel training.
