DIRECTIVE 2012/35/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 21 November 2012 
amending Directive 2008/106/EC on the minimum level of training of seafarers 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE 
EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, and in particular Article 100(2) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, 
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national 
parliaments, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and 
Social Committee ( 1 ), 
After consulting the Committee of the Regions, 
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure ( 2 ), 
Whereas: 
(1) 
The training and certification of seafarers is regulated by 
the 
International 
Maritime 
Organisation 
(IMO) 
Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and 
Watchkeeping for Seafarers 1978 (the ‘STCW Conven­
tion’), which entered into force in 1984 and which was 
significantly amended in 1995. 
(2) 
The STCW Convention was incorporated into Union law 
for the first time by Council Directive 94/58/EC of 
22 November 1994 on the minimum level of training 
of seafarers ( 3 ). The Union rules on training and certifi­
cation of seafarers were later adapted to the subsequent 
amendments to the STCW Convention, and a common 
Union mechanism for the recognition of the systems of 
training and certification of seafarers in third countries 
was set up. Those rules are, as the result of a recast, 
contained in Directive 2008/106/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council ( 4 ). 
(3) 
A Conference of Parties to the STCW Convention held in 
Manila in 2010 introduced significant amendments to 
the STCW Convention (the ‘Manila amendments’), 
namely on the prevention of fraudulent practices for 
certificates, in the field of medical standards, in the 
matter of training on security, including piracy and 
armed robbery, and with respect to training in tech­
nology-related matters. The Manila amendments also 
introduced requirements for able seafarers and estab­
lished new professional profiles, such as electro- 
technical officers. 
(4) 
All Member States are parties to the STCW Convention 
and none of them has objected to the Manila 
amendments under the procedure foreseen to that 
effect. Member States should therefore align their 
national rules with the Manila amendments. A conflict 
between the international commitments of Member 
States and their Union commitments should be 
avoided. Moreover, given the global nature of shipping, 
Union rules on training and certification of seafarers 
should be kept in line with international rules. Several 
provisions of Directive 2008/106/EC should, therefore, 
be amended in order to reflect the Manila amendments. 
(5) 
Improved training for seafarers should cover proper 
theoretical and practical training so as to ensure that 
seafarers are qualified to meet security and safety 
standards and are able to respond to hazards and emerg­
encies. 
(6) 
Quality standards and quality standards systems should 
be developed and implemented taking into account, 
where applicable, the Recommendation of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 on the 
establishment of a European Quality Assurance Reference 
Framework for Vocational Education and Training ( 5 ) and 
related measures adopted by the Member States.
EN 
L 343/78 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ C 43, 15.2.2012, p. 69. 
( 2 ) Position of the European Parliament of 23 October 2012 (not yet 
published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of 
13 November 2012. 
( 3 ) OJ L 319, 12.12.1994, p. 28. 
( 4 ) OJ L 323, 3.12.2008, p. 33. 
( 5 ) OJ C 155, 8.7.2009, p. 1.
(7) 
European social partners have agreed on minimum hours 
of 
rest 
applicable 
to 
seafarers 
and 
Directive 
1999/63/EC ( 1 ) was adopted with a view to imple­
menting that agreement. That Directive also allows for 
the possibility to authorise exceptions to the minimum 
hours of rest for seafarers. The possibility to authorise 
exceptions should, however, be limited in terms of 
maximum duration, frequency and scope. The Manila 
amendments aimed, amongst other things, to set 
objective limits to the exceptions to the minimum rest 
hours for watchkeeping personnel and seafarers with 
designated tasks related to safety, security and prevention 
of pollution with a view to preventing fatigue. The 
Manila 
amendments 
should 
be 
incorporated 
in 
Directive 2008/106/EC in a manner that ensures 
coherence with Directive 1999/63/EC, as amended by 
Directive 2009/13/EC ( 2 ). 
(8) 
Further recognising the importance of setting out 
minimum 
requirements 
governing 
the 
living 
and 
working conditions of all seafarers, Directive 2009/13/EC 
will take effect as specified therein, when the Maritime 
Labour Convention, 2006, enters into force. 
(9) 
Directive 2008/106/EC also contains a mechanism for 
the recognition of the systems of training and certifi­
cation of seafarers of third countries. The recognition is 
granted by the Commission in accordance with a 
procedure under which the Commission is assisted by 
the European Maritime Safety Agency (the ‘Agency’) 
established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council ( 3 ) and by the 
Committee on Safe Seas and the Prevention of Pollution 
from Ships (COSS), established by Regulation (EC) No 
2099/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Coun­
cil ( 4 ). Experience gained in applying that procedure 
suggests that it should be changed, namely with respect 
to the deadline for the Commission decision. Since the 
recognition requires an inspection to be performed by 
the Agency, which has to be planned and carried out, 
and, in most cases, involves significant adjustments to 
the STCW Convention requirements by the third 
country concerned, the whole process cannot be 
completed in three months. On the basis of experience, 
a more realistic time-frame in this respect appears to be 
18 months. The deadline for the Commission decision 
should therefore be changed accordingly, while the possi­
bility for the requesting Member State to provisionally 
recognise the third country’s STCW system should be 
kept in order to maintain flexibility. Furthermore, the 
provisions for recognition of professional qualifications 
under Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recog­
nition of professional qualifications ( 5 ) are not applicable 
with regard to the recognition of certificates of seafarers 
under Directive 2008/106/EC. 
(10) 
Available statistics on seafarers in the Union are 
incomplete and often inaccurate, which makes policy- 
making in this sector more difficult. Detailed data on 
certification of seafarers cannot entirely solve this 
problem but they would clearly help. Under the STCW 
Convention Parties are obliged to maintain registers of all 
certificates and endorsements and the relevant revali­
dations or other measures affecting them. Member 
States are obliged to maintain a register of issued 
certificates 
and 
endorsements. 
In 
order 
to 
have 
information that is as complete as possible on the 
employment situation in the Union and exclusively 
with a view to facilitating policy-making by Member 
States and the Commission, Member States should be 
required to send to the Commission selected information 
already 
contained 
in 
their 
registers 
of 
seafarers’ 
certificates of competency. That information should be 
communicated for the purposes of statistical analysis 
only, and is not to be used for administrative, legal or 
verification purposes. That information must be in line 
with the data protection requirements of the Union and, 
therefore, a provision to that effect should be introduced 
in Directive 2008/106/EC. 
(11) 
The results of the analysis of such information should be 
used to anticipate trends in the labour market with a 
view to improving the options for seafarers with regard 
to career planning and taking advantage of available 
vocational education and training opportunities. Such 
results should also contribute to the improvement of 
vocational education and training.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/79 
( 1 ) Council Directive 1999/63/EC of 21 June 1999 concerning the 
Agreement on the organisation of working time of seafarers 
concluded by the European Community Shipowners’ Association 
(ECSA) and the Federation of Transport Workers’ Unions in the 
European Union (FST) — Annex: European Agreement on the 
organisation of working time of seafarers (OJ L 167, 2.7.1999, 
p. 33). 
( 2 ) Council Directive 2009/13/EC of 16 February 2009 implementing 
the Agreement concluded by the European Community Shipowners’ 
Associations (ECSA) 
and 
the European Transport Workers’ 
Federation (ETF) on the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (OJ 
L 124, 20.5.2009, p. 30). 
( 3 ) OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1. 
( 4 ) OJ L 324, 29.11.2002, p. 1. 
( 5 ) OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22.
(12) 
In order to gather data on the seafaring profession in line 
with its evolution and with that of technology, the power 
to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 of the 
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 
should be delegated to the Commission in respect of 
adaptations of Annex V of Directive 2008/106/EC. The 
use of such delegated acts should be limited to cases in 
which amendments to the STCW Convention and Code 
require changes to that Annex. Additionally, such 
delegated acts should not modify the provisions on 
anonymising data referred to in that Annex. It is of 
particular importance that the Commission carry out 
appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, 
including at expert level. The Commission, when 
preparing and drawing up delegated acts, should ensure 
a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of 
relevant documents to the European Parliament and the 
Council. 
(13) 
The Union shipping sector has maritime expertise of high 
quality which helps to underpin its competitiveness. The 
quality of training for seafarers is important for the 
competitiveness of this sector and for attracting Union 
citizens, in particular young people, to the maritime 
professions. 
(14) 
In order to uphold quality standards regarding training 
for seafarers, measures to prevent fraudulent practices 
associated with certificates of competency and of profi­
ciency need to be improved. 
(15) 
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implemen­
tation of Directive 2008/106/EC implementing powers 
have been conferred on the Commission in the field of 
training and certification of seafarers. For the same 
reason implementing powers should also be conferred 
on the Commission in relation to the statistical data on 
seafarers to be supplied by Member States to the 
Commission. Those powers should be exercised in 
accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 
2011 laying down the rules and general principles 
concerning mechanisms for control by the Member 
States of the Commission’s exercise of implementing 
powers ( 1 ). 
(16) 
The examination procedure should be used for the 
adoption of technical requirements necessary to ensure 
the appropriate management of statistical data referred to 
in Annex V to Directive 2008/106/EC and for the 
adoption of implementing decisions on the recognition 
and withdrawal of recognition of third countries’ STCW 
systems. 
(17) 
The Manila amendments entered into force on 1 January 
2012, whilst transitional arrangements may be applied 
until 1 January 2017. In order to allow for a smooth 
transition to the new rules, this Directive should provide 
for the same transitional arrangements as those estab­
lished in the Manila amendments. 
(18) 
The IMO Maritime Safety Committee at its 89th session 
noted the need for clarification with regard to the imple­
mentation of the Manila amendments, taking into 
account 
the 
transitional 
arrangements 
established 
therein and Resolution 4 of the STCW Conference 
which recognises the need for full compliance to be 
achieved by 1 January 2017. Such clarification was 
provided by the IMO Circulars STCW.7/Circ.16 and 
STCW.7/Circ.17. In particular, STCW.7/Circ.16 states 
that the validity of any revalidated certificate should 
not extend beyond 1 January 2017 for seafarers 
holding certificates issued in accordance with the 
provisions of the STCW Convention which applied 
immediately prior to 1 January 2012, and who have 
not met the requirements of the Manila amendments, 
and for seafarers who commenced approved seagoing 
service, an approved education and training programme 
or an approved training course before 1 July 2013. 
(19) 
Further delays in incorporating the Manila amendments 
in Union law should be avoided, in order to maintain the 
competitiveness of seafarers from the Union as well as to 
uphold safety on board ships through up-to-date 
training. 
(20) 
For the sake of uniform implementation of the Manila 
amendments within the Union, it is advisable that, when 
transposing this Directive, Member States should take 
into account the guidance contained in the IMO 
circulars STCW.7/Circ.16 and STCW.7/Circ.17. 
(21) 
Since the objective of this Directive, namely the 
alignment of the current rules of the Union with inter­
national rules on training and certification of seafarers, 
cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and 
can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the 
action, be better achieved at Union level, the Union 
may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle 
of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on 
European Union. In accordance with the principle of 
proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Directive 
does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve that 
objective.
EN 
L 343/80 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012 
( 1 ) OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13.
(22) 
Directive 2008/106/EC should therefore be amended 
accordingly, 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: 
Article 1 
Amendments to Directive 2008/106/EC 
Directive 2008/106/EC is amended as follows: 
(1) 
Article 1 is amended as follows: 
(a) points (18) and (19) are replaced by the following: 
‘(18) “Radio Regulations” means the radio regulations 
annexed to, or regarded as being annexed to, the 
International Telecommunication Convention, as 
amended; 
(19) “passenger ship” means a ship as defined in the 
International Convention for the Safety of Life at 
Sea, 1974 (SOLAS 74), as amended;’; 
(b) point (24) is replaced by the following: 
‘(24) “STCW Code” means the Seafarers’ Training, 
Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) Code 
as adopted by the 1995 Conference resolution 
2, in its up-to-date version;’; 
(c) point (27) is deleted; 
(d) point (28) is replaced by the following: 
‘(28) “seagoing service” means service on board a ship 
relevant to the issue or revalidation of a 
certificate of competency, certificate of profi­
ciency or other qualification;’; 
(e) the following points are added: 
‘(32) “GMDSS radio operator” means a person 
qualified in accordance with Chapter IV of 
Annex I; 
(33) “ISPS Code” means the International Ship and 
Port 
Facility 
Security 
Code 
adopted 
on 
12 December 2002, by resolution 2 of the 
Conference of Contracting Governments to the 
SOLAS 74, in its up-to-date version; 
(34) “ship security officer” means the person on 
board a ship, accountable to the master, 
designated by the company as responsible for 
the security of the ship including implemen­
tation and maintenance of the ship security 
plan and liaison with the company security 
officer and port facility security officers; 
(35) “security duties” include all security tasks and 
duties on board ships as defined by Chapter 
XI/2 of the SOLAS 74, as amended, and by 
the ISPS Code; 
(36) “certificate of competency” means a certificate 
issued and endorsed for masters, officers and 
GMDSS radio operators in accordance with 
Chapters II, III, IV or VII of Annex I, and 
entitling the lawful holder thereof to serve in 
the 
capacity 
and 
perform 
the 
functions 
involved at the level of responsibility specified 
therein; 
(37) “certificate of proficiency” means a certificate, 
other than a certificate of competency, issued 
to 
a 
seafarer 
stating 
that 
the 
relevant 
requirements of training, competencies or sea- 
going service in this Directive have been met; 
(38) “documentary evidence” means documentation, 
other than a certificate of competency or 
certificate of proficiency, used to establish that 
the relevant requirements in this Directive have 
been met; 
(39) “electro-technical officer” 
means 
an 
officer 
qualified in accordance with Chapter III of 
Annex I; 
(40) “able seafarer deck” means a rating qualified in 
accordance with Chapter II of Annex I; 
(41) “able seafarer engine” means a rating qualified in 
accordance with Chapter III of Annex I; 
(42) “electro-technical rating” means a rating qualified 
in accordance with Chapter III of Annex I.’;
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/81
(2) 
in Article 3, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Member States shall take the measures necessary to 
ensure that seafarers serving on ships as referred to in 
Article 2 are trained as a minimum in accordance with 
the requirements of the STCW Convention, as laid down 
in Annex I to this Directive, and hold certificates as 
defined in points (36) and (37) of Article 1, and/or docu­
mentary evidence as defined in point (38) of Article 1.’; 
(3) 
Article 4 is deleted; 
(4) 
Article 5 is amended as follows: 
(a) the title is replaced by the following: 
‘Certificates 
of 
competency, 
certificates 
of 
proficiency and endorsements’; 
(b) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Member States shall ensure that certificates of 
competency and certificates of proficiency are issued 
only to candidates who comply with the requirements 
of this Article.’; 
(c) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 
‘3. 
Certificates of competency and certificates of 
proficiency shall be issued in accordance with Regu­
lation I/2, paragraph 3 of the Annex to the STCW 
Convention.’; 
(d) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘3a. 
Certificates of competency shall be issued only 
by the Member States, following verification of the 
authenticity and validity of any necessary documentary 
evidence and in accordance with the provisions laid 
down in this Article.’; 
(e) at the end of paragraph 5, the following sentence is 
added: 
‘Endorsements attesting the issue of a certificate of 
competency and endorsements attesting a certificate 
of proficiency issued to masters and officers in 
accordance with the Regulations V/1-1 and V/1-2 of 
Annex I shall be issued only if all the requirements of 
the STCW Convention and this Directive have been 
complied with.’; 
(f) paragraphs 6 and 7 are replaced by the following: 
‘6 
A Member State which recognises a certificate of 
competency, or a certificate of proficiency, issued to 
masters and officers in accordance with Regulations 
V/1-1 and V/1-2 of the Annex to the STCW 
Convention under the procedure laid down in 
Article 19(2) of this Directive shall endorse that 
certificate to attest its recognition only after ensuring 
the authenticity and validity of the certificate. The form 
of the endorsement used shall be that set out in 
paragraph 3 of Section A-I/2 of the STCW Code. 
7. 
The endorsements referred to in paragraphs 5 
and 6: 
(a) may be issued as separate documents; 
(b) shall be issued by Member States only; 
(c) shall each be assigned a unique number, except for 
endorsements attesting the issue of a certificate of 
competency, which may be assigned the same 
number 
as 
the 
certificate 
of 
competency 
concerned, provided that that number is unique; 
and 
(d) shall each expire as soon as the endorsed certificate 
of competency or certificate of proficiency issued 
to masters and officers in accordance with Regu­
lations V/1-1 and V/1-2 of the Annex to the 
STCW Convention expires or is withdrawn, 
suspended or cancelled by the Member State or 
third country which issued it and, in any case, 
within five years of their date of issue.’; 
(g) the following paragraphs are added: 
‘11. 
Candidates for certification shall provide satis­
factory proof: 
(a) of their identity; 
(b) that their age is not less than that prescribed in the 
Regulations listed in Annex I relevant to the 
certificate of competency or certificate of profi­
ciency applied for; 
(c) that they meet the standards of medical fitness, 
specified in Section A-I/9 of the STCW Code; 
(d) that they have completed the seagoing service and 
any related compulsory training prescribed in the 
Regulations listed in Annex I for the certificate of 
competency or certificate of proficiency applied 
for; and 
(e) that they meet the standards of competence 
prescribed in the Regulations listed in Annex I 
for the capacities, functions and levels that are to 
be identified in the endorsement of the certificate 
of competency.
EN 
L 343/82 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
This paragraph shall not apply to recognition of 
endorsements under Regulation I/10 of the STCW 
Convention. 
12. 
Each Member State shall undertake: 
(a) to maintain a register or registers of all certificates 
of competency and certificates of proficiency and 
endorsements for masters and officers and, where 
applicable, ratings which are issued, have expired 
or have been revalidated, suspended, cancelled or 
reported as lost or destroyed, as well as of dispen­
sations issued; 
(b) to make available information on the status of 
certificates of competency, endorsements and 
dispensations to other Member States or other 
Parties to the STCW Convention and companies 
which request verification of the authenticity and 
validity of certificates of competency and/or 
certificates issued to masters and officers in 
accordance with Regulations V/1-1 and V/1-2 of 
Annex I produced to them by seafarers seeking 
recognition, under Regulation I/10 of the STCW 
Convention, or employment on board ship. 
13. 
As of 1 January 2017, the information required 
to be available in accordance with point (b) of 
paragraph 12 shall be made available by electronic 
means.’; 
(5) 
the following Article is inserted: 
‘Article 5a 
Information to the Commission 
Each 
Member 
State 
shall 
make 
available 
to 
the 
Commission on a yearly basis the information indicated 
in Annex V to this Directive on certificates of competency, 
endorsements attesting the recognition of certificates of 
competency as well as, on a voluntary basis, certificates 
of proficiency issued to ratings in accordance with 
Chapters II, III, and VII of the Annex to the STCW 
Convention, for the purposes of statistical analysis only 
and exclusively for use by Member States and the 
Commission in policy-making.’; 
(6) 
Article 7 is amended as follows: 
(a) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘1a. 
A Member State, for ships afforded the benefits 
of the near-coastal voyage provisions of the STCW 
Convention, which includes voyages off the coast of 
other Member States or of Parties to the STCW 
Convention within the limits of their near-coastal defi­
nition, shall enter into an undertaking with the 
Member States or Parties concerned specifying both 
the details of the trading areas involved and other 
relevant provisions.’; 
(b) the following paragraphs are inserted: 
‘3a. 
The certificates of competency of seafarers 
issued by a Member State or a Party to the STCW 
Convention for its defined near-coastal voyage limits 
may be accepted by other Member States for service in 
their defined near-coastal voyage limits, provided the 
Member States or Parties concerned enter into an 
undertaking specifying the details of the trading areas 
involved and other relevant conditions thereof. 
3b. 
Member States defining near-coastal voyages, in 
accordance with the requirements of this Article, shall: 
(a) meet the principles governing near-coastal voyages 
specified in Section A-I/3 of the STCW Code; 
(b) incorporate the near-coastal voyage limits in the 
endorsements issued pursuant to Article 5.’; 
(7) 
in Article 8, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Member States shall take and enforce appropriate 
measures to prevent fraud and other unlawful practices 
involving certificates and endorsements issued, and shall 
provide for penalties that are effective, proportionate and 
dissuasive.’; 
(8) 
Article 9 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraphs 1 and 2 are replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Member States shall establish processes and 
procedures for the impartial investigation of any 
reported incompetence, act, omission or compromise 
to security that may pose a direct threat to safety of 
life or property at sea or to the marine environment, 
on the part of the holders of certificates of competency 
and certificates of proficiency or endorsements issued 
by that Member State in connection with their 
performance of duties relating to their certificates of 
competency and certificates of proficiency and for the 
withdrawal, suspension and cancellation of such 
certificates of competency and certificates of profi­
ciency for such cause and for the prevention of fraud.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/83
2. 
Member States shall take and enforce appropriate 
measures to prevent fraud and other unlawful practices 
involving certificates of competency and certificates of 
proficiency and endorsements issued.’; 
(b) in paragraph 3, the introductory wording is replaced 
by the following: 
‘Penalties or disciplinary measures shall be prescribed 
and enforced in cases in which:’; 
(9) 
Article 10 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 
(i) point (a) is replaced by the following: 
‘(a) all training, assessment of competence, certifi­
cation, 
including 
medical 
certification, 
endorsement 
and 
revalidation 
activities 
carried out by non-governmental agencies or 
entities under their authority are continuously 
monitored through a quality standards system 
to ensure the achievement of defined objec­
tives, including those concerning the qualifi­
cations and experience of instructors and 
assessors, in accordance with Section A-I/8 
of the STCW Code;’; 
(ii) point (b) is replaced by the following: 
‘(b) where governmental agencies or entities 
perform such activities, there is a quality 
standards system in accordance with Section 
A-I/8 of the STCW Code;’; 
(iii) point (c) is replaced by the following: 
‘(c) education and training objectives and related 
quality standards of competence to be 
achieved are clearly defined and that the 
levels of knowledge, understanding and skills 
appropriate 
to 
the 
examinations 
and 
assessments 
required 
under 
the 
STCW 
Convention are identified;’; 
(b) in paragraph 2, the following point is added: 
‘(d) all applicable provisions of the STCW Convention 
and Code, including amendments are covered by 
the quality standards system. Member States may 
also include within this system the other 
applicable provisions of this Directive.’; 
(c) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 
‘3. 
A report relating to each evaluation carried out 
pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be communicated by the 
Member State concerned to the Commission, in 
accordance with the format specified in Section A-I/7 
of the STCW Code, within six months of the date of 
the evaluation.’; 
(10) Article 11 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 11 
Medical standards 
1. 
Each Member State shall establish standards of 
medical fitness for seafarers and procedures for the issue 
of a medical certificate in accordance with this Article and 
Section A-I/9 of the STCW Code, taking into account, as 
appropriate, Section B-I/9 of the STCW Code. 
2. 
Each 
Member 
State 
shall 
ensure 
that 
those 
responsible for assessing the medical fitness of seafarers 
are medical practitioners recognised by that Member 
State for the purpose of seafarer medical examinations, 
in accordance with the Section A-I/9 of the STCW Code. 
3. 
Every seafarer holding a certificate of competency or 
a certificate of proficiency, issued under the provisions of 
the STCW Convention, who is serving at sea shall also 
hold a valid medical certificate issued in accordance with 
this Article and Section A-I/9 of the STCW Code. 
4. 
Candidates for medical certification shall: 
(a) be not less than 16 years of age; 
(b) provide satisfactory proof of their identity; and 
(c) meet the applicable medical fitness standards estab­
lished by the Member State concerned. 
5. 
Medical certificates shall remain valid for a maximum 
period of two years unless the seafarer is under the age of 
18, in which case the maximum period of validity shall be 
one year. 
6. 
If the period of validity of a medical certificate 
expires in the course of a voyage, Regulation I/9 of the 
Annex to the STCW Convention shall apply.
EN 
L 343/84 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
7. 
In urgent cases, a Member State may permit a 
seafarer to work without a valid medical certificate. In 
such cases, Regulation I/9 of the Annex to the STCW 
Convention shall apply.’; 
(11) Article 12 is amended as follows: 
(a) the title is replaced by the following: 
‘Revalidation of certificates of competency and 
certificates of proficiency’; 
(b) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘2a. 
Every master and officer shall, for continuing 
seagoing 
service 
on 
board 
tankers, 
meet 
the 
requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article and be 
required, at intervals not exceeding five years, to 
establish 
continued 
professional 
competence 
for 
tankers in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 
A-I/11 of the STCW Code.’; 
(c) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 
‘3. 
Each Member State shall compare the standards 
of competence which are required of candidates for 
certificates of competency issued until 1 January 
2017 with those specified for the relevant certificate 
of competency in Part A of the STCW Code, and shall 
determine the need to require the holders of such 
certificates of competency to undergo appropriate 
refresher and updating training or assessment.’; 
(d) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 
‘5. 
For the purpose of updating the knowledge of 
masters, officers and radio operators, each Member 
State shall ensure that the texts of recent changes in 
national and international regulations concerning the 
safety of life at sea, security and the protection of the 
marine environment are made available to ships 
entitled to fly its flag, while respecting point (b) of 
Article 14(3) and Article 18.’; 
(12) in Article 13, paragraph 2 is deleted; 
(13) Article 14 is amended as follows: 
(a) in paragraph 1, the following points are added: 
‘(f) seafarers assigned to any of its ships have received 
refresher and updating training as required by the 
STCW Convention; 
(g) at all times on board its ships there shall be 
effective oral communication in accordance with 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Chapter V of Regulation 
14, of the SOLAS 74, as amended.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is added: 
‘4. 
Companies shall ensure that masters, officers 
and other personnel assigned specific duties and 
responsibilities on board their ro-ro passenger ships 
shall have completed familiarisation training to attain 
the abilities that are appropriate to the capacity to be 
filled and duties and responsibilities to be taken up, 
taking into account the guidance given in Section B- 
I/14 of the STCW Code.’; 
(14) Article 15 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 15 
Fitness for duty 
1. 
For the purpose of preventing fatigue, Member States 
shall: 
(a) establish and enforce rest periods for watchkeeping 
personnel and those whose duties involve designated 
safety, security and prevention of pollution duties in 
accordance with paragraphs 3 to 13; 
(b) require that watch systems are arranged in such a way 
that the efficiency of watchkeeping personnel is not 
impaired by fatigue, and that duties are organised in 
such a way that the first watch at the start of a voyage 
and subsequent relieving watches are sufficiently rested 
and otherwise fit for duty. 
2. 
Member States shall, for the purpose of preventing 
drug and alcohol abuse, ensure that adequate measures are 
established in accordance with the provisions laid down in 
this Article. 
3. 
Member States shall take account of the danger 
posed by fatigue of seafarers, especially those whose 
duties involve the safe and secure operation of a ship. 
4. 
All persons who are assigned duty as officer in 
charge of a watch or as a rating forming part of a 
watch, and those whose duties involve designated safety, 
prevention of pollution and security duties shall be 
provided with a rest period of not less than: 
(a) a minimum of 10 hours of rest in any 24-hour period; 
and
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/85
(b) 77 hours in any seven-day period. 
5. 
The hours of rest may be divided into no more than 
two periods, one of which shall be at least six hours in 
length, and the intervals between consecutive periods of 
rest shall not exceed 14 hours. 
6. 
The requirements for rest periods laid down in para­
graphs 4 and 5 need not be maintained in the case of an 
emergency or in other overriding operational conditions. 
Musters, firefighting and 
lifeboat 
drills, and 
drills 
prescribed by national laws and regulations and by inter­
national instruments, shall be conducted in a manner that 
minimises the disturbance of rest periods and does not 
induce fatigue. 
7. 
Member States shall require that watch schedules be 
posted where they are easily accessible. The schedules shall 
be established in a standardised format in the working 
language or languages of the ship and in English. 
8. 
When a seafarer is on call, such as when a 
machinery space is unattended, the seafarer shall have an 
adequate compensatory rest period if the normal period of 
rest is disturbed by call-outs to work. 
9. 
Member States shall require that records of daily 
hours of rest of seafarers be maintained in a standardised 
format, in the working language or languages of the ship 
and in English, to allow monitoring and verification of 
compliance with this Article. Seafarers shall receive a 
copy of the records pertaining to them, which shall be 
endorsed by the master, or by a person authorised by 
the master, and by the seafarers. 
10. 
Notwithstanding the rules laid down in paragraphs 
3 to 9, the master of a ship shall be entitled to require a 
seafarer to perform any hours of work necessary for the 
immediate safety of the ship, persons on board or cargo, 
or for the purpose of giving assistance to other ships or 
persons in distress at sea. Accordingly, the master may 
suspend the schedule of hours of rest and require a 
seafarer to perform any hours of work necessary until 
the normal situation has been restored. As soon as prac­
ticable after the normal situation has been restored, the 
master shall ensure that any seafarers who have performed 
work in a scheduled rest period are provided with an 
adequate period of rest. 
11. 
With due regard for the general principles of the 
protection of the health and safety of workers and in line 
with Directive 1999/63/EC Member States may, by means 
of national laws, regulations or a procedure for the 
competent authority, authorise or register collective 
agreements permitting exceptions to the required hours 
of rest set out in point (b) of paragraph 4 and in 
paragraph 5 of this Article provided that the rest period 
is no less than 70 hours in any seven-day period and 
respects the limits set out in paragraphs 12 and 13 of 
this Article. Such exceptions shall, as far as possible, 
follow the standards set out but may take account of 
more frequent or longer leave periods, or the granting of 
compensatory leave for watchkeeping seafarers or seafarers 
working on board ships on short voyages. Exceptions 
shall, as far as possible, take into account the guidance 
regarding prevention of fatigue laid down in Section 
B-VIII/1 of the STCW Code. Exceptions to the minimum 
hours of rest provided for in point (a) of paragraph 4 of 
this Article shall not be allowed. 
12. 
Exceptions referred to in paragraph 11 to the 
weekly rest period provided for in point (b) of paragraph 
4 shall not be allowed for more than two consecutive 
weeks. The intervals between two periods of exceptions 
on board shall not be less than twice the duration of 
the exception. 
13. 
In the framework of possible exceptions to 
paragraph 5 referred to in paragraph 11, the minimum 
hours of rest in any 24-hour period provided for in point 
(a) of paragraph 4 may be divided into no more than three 
periods of rest, one of which shall be at least six hours in 
length and neither of the two other periods shall be less 
than one hour in length. The intervals between consecutive 
periods of rest shall not exceed 14 hours. Exceptions shall 
not extend beyond two 24-hour periods in any seven-day 
period. 
14. 
Member States shall establish, for the purpose of 
preventing alcohol abuse, a limit of not greater than 
0,05 % blood alcohol level (BAC) or 0,25 mg/l alcohol 
in the breath or a quantity of alcohol leading to such 
alcohol concentration for masters, officers and other 
seafarers while performing designated safety, security and 
marine environmental duties.’; 
(15) in Article 17(1), point (c) is replaced by the following: 
‘(c) issue the certificates referred to in Article 5;’; 
(16) Article 19 is amended as follows: 
(a) the title is replaced by the following: 
‘Recognition of certificates of competency and 
certificates of proficiency’;
EN 
L 343/86 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
(b) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Seafarers who do not possess the certificates of 
competency issued by Member States and/or the 
certificates of proficiency issued by Member States to 
masters and officers in accordance with Regulations 
V/1-1 and V/1-2 of the STCW Convention, may be 
allowed to serve on ships flying the flag of a Member 
State provided that a decision on the recognition of 
their certificates of competency and certificates of 
proficiency has been adopted through the procedures 
set out in paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article.’; 
(c) in paragraph 2, the first subparagraph is replaced by 
the following: 
‘2. 
A Member State which intends to recognise, by 
endorsement, the certificates of competency and/or the 
certificates of proficiency referred to in paragraph 1 
issued by a third country to a master, officer or 
radio operator, for service on ships flying its flag, 
shall submit a request for recognition of that third 
country to the Commission, stating its reasons.’; 
(d) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 
‘3. 
The decision on the recognition of a third 
country shall be taken by the Commission. Those 
implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance 
with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article 28(2), within 18 months of the date of the 
request for the recognition. The Member State 
submitting the request may decide to recognise the 
third country unilaterally until a decision is taken 
under this paragraph.’; 
(17) in Article 20, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 
‘6. 
The decision on the withdrawal of the recognition 
shall be taken by the Commission. Those implementing 
acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article 28(2). The Member States 
concerned shall take appropriate measures to implement 
the decision.’; 
(18) in Article 22, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Irrespective of the flag it flies, each ship, with the 
exception of those types of ships excluded by Article 2, 
shall, while in the ports of a Member State, be subject to 
port State control by officers duly authorised by that 
Member State to verify that all seafarers serving on 
board who are required to hold a certificate of competency 
and/or a certificate of proficiency and/or documentary 
evidence under the STCW Convention, hold such a 
certificate of competency or valid dispensation and/or 
certificate of proficiency and/or documentary evidence.’; 
(19) in Article 23(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: 
‘(a) verification that every seafarer serving on board who 
is required to hold a certificate of competency and/or 
a certificate of proficiency in accordance with the 
STCW Convention holds such a certificate of 
competency or valid dispensation and/or certificate 
of proficiency, or provides documentary proof that 
an application for an endorsement attesting recog­
nition of a certificate of competency has been 
submitted to the authorities of the flag State;’; 
(20) in Article 23, paragraph 2 is amended as follows: 
(a) the introductory wording is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
The ability of the ship’s seafarers to maintain 
watchkeeping and security standards, as appropriate, 
as required by the STCW Convention shall be 
assessed in accordance with Part A of the STCW 
Code if there are clear grounds for believing that 
such standards are not being maintained because any 
of the following has occurred:’; 
(b) point (d) is replaced by the following: 
‘(d) the ship is otherwise being operated in such a 
manner as to pose a danger to persons, 
property or the environment, or to compromise 
security;’; 
(21) the following Article is inserted: 
‘Article 25a 
Information for statistical purposes 
1. 
The 
Member 
States 
shall 
communicate 
the 
information listed in Annex V to the Commission for 
the purposes of statistical analysis only. Such information 
may not be used for administrative, legal or verification 
purposes, and is exclusively for use by Member States and 
the Commission in policy-making. 
2. 
That information shall be made available by Member 
States to the Commission on a yearly basis and in elec­
tronic format and shall include information registered until 
31 December of the previous year. Member States shall 
retain all property rights to the information in its raw data 
format. Processed statistics drawn up on the basis of such 
information shall be made publicly available in accordance 
with the provisions on transparency and protection of 
information set out in Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 
1406/2002.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/87
3. 
In order to ensure the protection of personal data, 
Member States shall anonymise all personal information as 
indicated in Annex V by using software provided or 
accepted by the Commission before transmitting it to 
the 
Commission. 
The 
Commission 
shall 
use 
this 
anonymised information only. 
4. 
Member States and the Commission shall ensure that 
measures for collecting, submitting, storing, analysing and 
disseminating such information are designed in such a way 
that statistical analysis is made possible. 
For 
the 
purposes 
of 
the 
first 
subparagraph, the 
Commission shall adopt detailed measures regarding the 
technical requirements necessary to ensure the appropriate 
management of the statistical data. Those implementing 
acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article 28(2).’; 
(22) Article 27 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 27 
Amendment 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 
acts, in accordance with Article 27a, amending Annex V 
to this Directive with respect to specific and relevant 
content and details of the information that needs to be 
reported by Member States provided that such acts are 
limited to taking into account the amendments to the 
STCW Convention and Code and respect the safeguards 
on data protection. Such delegated acts shall not change 
the provisions of anonymisation of data as required by 
Article 25a(3).’; 
(23) the following Article is inserted: 
‘Article 27a 
Exercise of the delegation 
1. 
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on 
the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in 
this Article. 
2. 
The delegation of power referred to in Article 27 
shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of 
five years from 3 January 2013. The Commission shall 
draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power 
not later than 4 April 2017. The delegation of power shall 
be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, 
unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes 
such extension not later than three months before the 
end of each period. 
3. 
The delegation of power referred to in Article 27 
may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament 
or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to 
the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It 
shall take effect the day following the publication of the 
decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a 
later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of 
any delegated acts already in force. 
4. 
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission 
shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament 
and to the Council. 
5. 
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 27 shall 
enter into force only if no objection has been expressed 
either by the European Parliament or the Council within a 
period of two months of notification of that act to the 
European Parliament and the Council or if, before the 
expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the 
Council have both informed the Commission that they 
will not object. That period shall be extended by two 
months at the initiative of the European Parliament or 
the Council.’; 
(24) Article 28 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 28 
Committee procedure 
1. 
The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee 
on Safe Seas and the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 
(COSS) established by Regulation (EC) No 2099/2002 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council (*). That 
committee shall be a committee within the meaning of 
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the 
rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for 
control by Member States of the Commission’s exercise 
of implementing powers (**). 
2. 
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 
of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. Where the 
Committee delivers no opinion, the Commission shall not 
adopt 
the 
draft 
implementing 
act 
and 
the 
third 
subparagraph of Article 5(4) of Regulation (EU) No 
182/2011 shall apply. 
___________ 
(*) OJ L 324, 29.11.2002, p. 1. 
(**) OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13.’;
EN 
L 343/88 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
(25) Article 29 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 29 
Penalties 
Member States shall lay down systems of penalties for 
breaching the national provisions adopted pursuant to 
Articles 3, 5, 7, 9 to 15, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 24 and 
Annex I, and shall take all the measures necessary to 
ensure that they are implemented. The penalties provided 
for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.’; 
(26) Article 30 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 30 
Transitional provisions 
In respect of those seafarers who commenced approved 
seagoing service, an approved education and training 
programme or an approved training course before 1 July 
2013, Member States may continue to issue, recognise and 
endorse, until 1 January 2017, certificates of competency 
in accordance with the requirements of this Directive as 
they were before 3 January 2013. 
Until 1 January 2017, Member States may continue to 
renew and revalidate certificates of competency and 
endorsements in accordance with the requirements of 
this Directive as they were before 3 January 2013’; 
(27) Article 33 is deleted; 
(28) this point does not concern the English version; 
(29) the Annexes are amended as follows: 
(a) Annex I to Directive 2008/106/EC is replaced by 
Annex I to this Directive; 
(b) Annex II to Directive 2008/106/EC is amended as laid 
down in Annex II to this Directive; 
(c) the text set out in Annex III to this Directive is added 
as Annex V to Directive 2008/106/EC. 
Article 2 
Transposition 
1. 
Without 
prejudice 
to 
Article 
30 
of 
Directive 
2008/106/EC, as amended by point (26) of Article 1 of this 
Directive, Member States shall bring into force the laws, regu­
lations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with 
this Directive by 4 July 2014, and with respect to point (5) of 
Article 1 of this Directive by 4 January 2015. They shall 
forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those 
provisions. 
When Member States adopt such provisions, they shall contain 
a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a 
reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member 
States shall determine how such reference is to be made. 
2. 
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the 
text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in 
the field covered by this Directive. 
Article 3 
Entry into force 
This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day 
following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
Article 4 
Addressees 
This Directive is addressed to the Member States. 
Done at Strasbourg, 21 November 2012. 
For the European Parliament 
The President 
M. SCHULZ 
For the Council 
The President 
A. D. MAVROYIANNIS
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/89
ANNEX I 
‘ANNEX I 
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS OF THE STCW CONVENTION, REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3 
CHAPTER I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1. The Regulations referred to in this Annex are supplemented by the mandatory provisions contained in Part A of the 
STCW Code with the exception of Chapter VIII, Regulation VIII/2. 
Any reference to a requirement in a Regulation also constitutes a reference to the corresponding section of Part A of 
the STCW Code. 
2. Part A of the STCW Code contains standards of competence required to be demonstrated by candidates for the issue, 
and revalidation of certificates of competency under the provisions of the STCW Convention. To clarify the linkage 
between the alternative certification provisions of Chapter VII and the certification provisions of Chapters II, III and IV, 
the abilities specified in the standards of competence are grouped as appropriate under the following seven functions: 
(1) Navigation; 
(2) Cargo handling and stowage; 
(3) Controlling the operation of the ship and care for persons on board; 
(4) Marine engineering; 
(5) Electrical, electronic and control engineering; 
(6) Maintenance and repair; 
(7) Radio communications, 
at the following levels of responsibility: 
(1) Management level; 
(2) Operational level; 
(3) Support level. 
Functions and levels of responsibility are identified by subtitle in the tables of standards of competence given specified 
in Chapters II, III and IV of the Part A of the STCW Code. 
CHAPTER II 
MASTER AND DECK DEPARTMENT 
Regulation II/1 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of officers in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 500 
gross tonnage or more 
1. Every officer in charge of a navigational watch serving on a seagoing ship of 500 gross tonnage or more shall hold a 
certificate of competency. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
2.2. have approved seagoing service of not less than 12 months as part of an approved training programme which 
includes onboard training which meets the requirements of Section A-II/1 of the STCW Code and is documented 
in an approved training record book, or otherwise have approved seagoing service of not less than 36 months;
EN 
L 343/90 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
2.3. have performed, during the required seagoing service, bridge watchkeeping duties under the supervision of the 
master or a qualified officer for a period of not less than six months; 
2.4. meet the applicable requirements of the regulations in Chapter IV, as appropriate, for performing designed radio 
duties in accordance with the Radio Regulations; 
2.5. have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/1 
of the STCW Code; and 
2.6. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-VI/1, paragraph 2, Section A-VI/2 paragraphs 1 to 4, 
Section A-VI/3 paragraphs 1 to 4 and Section A-VI/4 paragraphs 1 to 3 of the STCW Code. 
Regulation II/2 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of masters and chief mates on ships of 500 gross tonnage or 
more 
M a s t e r a n d c h i e f m a t e o n s h i p s o f 3 0 0 0 g r o s s t o n n a g e o r m o r e 
1. Every master and chief mate on a seagoing ship of 3 000 gross tonnage or more shall hold a certificate of 
competency. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. meet the requirements for certification as an officer in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 500 gross 
tonnage or more and have approved seagoing service in that capacity: 
2.1.1. for certification as chief mate, not less than 12 months; and 
2.1.2. for certification as master, not less than 36 months; however, this period may be reduced to not less than 
24 months if not less than 12 months of such seagoing service has been served as chief mate; and 
2.2. have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/2 
of the STCW Code for masters and chief mates on ships of 3 000 gross tonnage or more. 
M a s t e r a n d c h i e f m a t e o n s h i p s o f b e t w e e n 5 0 0 a n d 3 0 0 0 g r o s s t o n n a g e 
3. Every master and chief mate on a seagoing ship of between 500 and 3 000 gross tonnage shall hold a certificate of 
competency. 
4. Every candidate for certification shall: 
4.1. for certification as chief mate, meet the requirements of an officer in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 
500 gross tonnage or more; 
4.2. for certification as master, meet the requirements of an officer in charge of a navigational watch on ships of 500 
gross tonnage or more and have approved seagoing service of not less than 36 months in that capacity; however, 
this period may be reduced to not less than 24 months if not less than 12 months of such seagoing service has 
been served as chief mate; and 
4.3. have completed approved training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/2 of the STCW 
Code for masters and chief mates on ships of between 500 and 3 000 gross tonnage. 
Regulation II/3 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of officers in charge of a navigational watch and of masters 
on ships of less than 500 gross tonnage 
S h i p s n o t e n g a g e d o n n e a r - c o a s t a l v o y a g e s 
1. Every officer in charge of a navigational watch serving on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage not engaged 
on near-coastal voyages shall hold a certificate of competency for ships of 500 gross tonnage or more.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/91
2. Every master serving on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage not engaged on near-coastal voyages shall 
hold a certificate of competency for service as master on ships of between 500 and 3 000 gross tonnage. 
S h i p s e n g a g e d o n n e a r - c o a s t a l v o y a g e s 
Officer in charge of a navigational watch 
3. Every officer in charge of a navigational watch on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near- 
coastal voyages shall hold a certificate of competency. 
4. Every candidate for certification as officer in charge of a navigational watch on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross 
tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages shall: 
4.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
4.2. have completed: 
4.2.1. special training, including an adequate period of appropriate seagoing service as required by the Member 
State; or 
4.2.2. approved seagoing service in the deck department of not less than 36 months; 
4.3. meet the applicable requirements of the regulations in Chapter IV, as appropriate, for performing designated radio 
duties in accordance with the Radio Regulations; 
4.4. have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/3 
of the STCW Code for officers in charge of a navigational watch on ships of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged 
on near-coastal voyages; and 
4.5. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-VI/1, paragraph 2, Section A-VI/2 paragraphs 1 to 4, 
Section A-VI/3 paragraphs 1 to 4 and Section A-VI/4 paragraphs 1 to 3 of the STCW Code; 
Master 
5. Every master serving on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages shall hold a 
certificate of competency. 
6. Every candidate for certification as master on a seagoing ship of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on a near- 
coastal voyages shall: 
6.1. be not less than 20 years of age; 
6.2. have approved seagoing service of not less than 12 months as officer in charge of a navigational watch; 
6.3. have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/3 
of the STCW Code for masters on ships of less than 500 gross tonnage engaged on near-coastal voyages; and 
6.4. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-VI/1, paragraph 2, Section A-VI/2 paragraphs 1 to 4, 
Section A-VI/3 paragraphs 1 to 4 and Section A-VI/4 paragraphs 1 to 3 of the STCW Code. 
Exemptions 
7. The Administration, if it considers that a ship’s size and the conditions of its voyage are such as to render the 
application of the full requirements of this regulation and Section A-II/3 of the STCW Code unreasonable or imprac­
ticable, may to that extent exempt the master and the officer in charge of a navigational watch on such a ship or class 
of ships from some of the requirements, bearing in mind the safety of all ships which may be operating in the same 
waters. 
Regulation II/4 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of ratings forming part of a navigational watch 
1. Every rating forming part of a navigational watch on a seagoing ship of 500 gross tonnage or more, other than ratings 
under training and ratings whose duties while on watch are of an unskilled nature, shall be duly certificated to perform 
such duties.
EN 
L 343/92 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 16 years of age; 
2.2. have completed: 
2.2.1. approved seagoing service including not less than six months training and experience; or 
2.2.2. special training, either pre-sea or on board ship, including an approved period of seagoing service which 
shall not be less than two months; and 
2.3. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/4 of the STCW Code. 
3. The seagoing service, training and experience required by points 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 shall be associated with navigational 
watchkeeping functions and involve the performance of duties carried out under the direct supervision of the master, 
the officer in charge of the navigational watch or a qualified rating. 
Regulation II/5 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of ratings as able seafarer deck 
1. Every able seafarer deck serving on a seagoing ship of 500 gross tonnage or more shall be duly certificated. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
2.2. meet the requirements for certification as a rating forming part of a navigational watch; 
2.3. while qualified to serve as a rating forming part of a navigational watch, have approved seagoing service in the 
deck department of: 
2.3.1. not less than 18 months; or 
2.3.2. not less than 12 months and have completed approved training; and 
2.4. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/5 of the STCW Code. 
3. Every Member State shall compare the standards of competence which it required of Able Seamen for certificates 
issued before 1 January 2012 with those specified for the certificate in Section A-II/5 of the STCW Code, and shall 
determine the need, if any, for requiring these personnel to update their qualifications. 
4. Until 1 January 2017, a Member State which is also a party to the International Labour Organisation Certification of 
Able Seamen Convention, 1946 (No 74) may continue to renew and revalidate certificates and endorsements in 
accordance with the provisions of the aforesaid Convention. 
5. Seafarers may be considered by the Member State to have met the requirements of this regulation if they have served 
in a relevant capacity in the deck department for a period of not less than 12 months within the last 60 months 
preceding the entry into force of the present Directive. 
CHAPTER III 
ENGINE DEPARTMENT 
Regulation III/1 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of officers in charge of an engineering watch in a manned 
engine-room or designated duty engineers in a periodically unmanned engine-room 
1. Every officer in charge of an engineering watch in a manned engine-room or designated duty engineer officer in a 
periodically unmanned engine-room on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW 
propulsion power or more shall hold a certificate of competency.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/93
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
2.2. have completed combined workshop skill training and an approved seagoing service of not less than 12 months 
as part of an approved training programme which includes onboard training which meets the requirements of 
Section A-III/1 of the STCW Code and is documented in an approved training record book, or otherwise have 
completed combined workshop skill training and an approved seagoing service of not less than 36 months of 
which not less than 30 months will be seagoing service in the engine department; 
2.3. have performed, during the required seagoing service, engine-room watchkeeping duties under the supervision of 
the chief engineer officer or a qualified engineer officer for a period of not less than six months; 
2.4. have completed approved education and training and meet the standards of competence specified in Section 
A-III/1 of the STCW Code; and 
2.5. meet the standards of competence specified in Section A-VI/1, paragraph 2, Section A-VI/2, paragraphs 1 to 4, 
Section A-VI/3, paragraphs 1 to 4 and Section A-VI/4, paragraphs 1 to 3 of the STCW Code. 
Regulation III/2 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of chief engineer officers and second engineer officers on 
ships powered by main propulsion machinery of 3 000 kW propulsion power or more 
1. Every chief engineer officer and second engineer officer on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 
3 000 kW propulsion power or more shall hold a certificate of competency. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. meet the requirements for certification as an officer in charge of an engineering watch on seagoing ships powered 
by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW propulsion power or more and have approved seagoing service in that 
capacity: 
2.1.1. for certification as a second engineer officer, not less than 12 months as qualified engineer officer; and 
2.1.2. for certification as chief engineer officer, not less than 36 months, however, this period may be reduced to 
not less than 24 months if not less than 12 months of such seagoing service has been served as second 
engineer officer; and 
2.2. have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section 
A-III/2 of the STCW Code. 
Regulation III/3 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of chief engineer officers and second engineer officers on 
ships powered by main propulsion machinery of between 750 kW and 3 000 kW propulsion power 
1. Every chief engineer officer and second engineer officer on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 
between 750 and 3 000 kW propulsion power shall hold a certificate of competency. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. meet the requirements for certification as an officer in charge of an engineering watch and: 
2.1.1. for certification as second engineer officer, shall have not less than 12 months approved seagoing service 
as assistant engineer officer or engineer officer; and 
2.1.2. for certification as chief engineer officer, shall have not less than 24 months approved seagoing service of 
which not less than 12 months shall be served while qualified to serve as second engineer officer; and 
2.2. have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section 
A-III/3 of the STCW Code.
EN 
L 343/94 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
3. Every engineer officer who is qualified to serve as second engineer officer on ships powered by main propulsion 
machinery of 3 000 kW propulsion power or more, may serve as chief engineer officer on ships powered by main 
propulsion machinery of less than 3 000 kW propulsion power, provided that the certificate is so endorsed. 
Regulation III/4 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of ratings forming part of a watch in a manned engine-room 
or designated to perform duties in a periodically unmanned engine-room 
1. Every rating forming part of an engine-room watch or designated to perform duties in a periodically unmanned 
engine-room on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW propulsion power or more, other 
than ratings under training and ratings whose duties are of an unskilled nature, shall be duly certificated to perform 
such duties. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 16 years of age; 
2.2. have completed: 
2.2.1. approved seagoing service including not less than six months training and experience; or 
2.2.2. special training, either pre-sea or on board ship, including an approved period of seagoing service which 
shall not be less than two months; and 
2.3. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-III/4 of the STCW Code. 
3. The seagoing service, training and experience required by points 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 shall be associated with engine-room 
watchkeeping functions and involve the performance of duties carried out under the direct supervision of a qualified 
engineer officer or a qualified rating. 
Regulation III/5 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of ratings as able seafarer engine in a manned engine-room 
or designated to perform duties in a periodically unmanned engine-room 
1. Every able seafarer engine serving on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW propulsion 
power or more shall be duly certificated. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
2.2. meet the requirements for certification as a rating forming part of a watch in a manned engine-room or 
designated to perform duties in a periodically unmanned engine-room; 
2.3. while qualified to serve as a rating forming part of an engineering watch, have approved seagoing service in the 
engine department of: 
2.3.1. not less than 12 months; or 
2.3.2. not less than six months and have completed approved training; and 
2.4. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-III/5 of the STCW Code. 
3. Every Member State shall compare the standards of competence which it required of ratings in the engine department 
for certificates issued before 1 January 2012 with those specified for the certificate in Section A-III/5 of the STCW 
Code, and shall determine the need, if any, for requiring these personnel to update their qualifications. 
4. Seafarers may be considered by the Member State to have met the requirements of this regulation if they have served 
in a relevant capacity in the engine department for a period of not less than 12 months within the last 60 months 
preceding the entry into force of this Directive.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/95
Regulation III/6 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of electro-technical officer 
1. Every electro-technical officer serving on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW 
propulsion power or more, shall hold a certificate of competency. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
2.2. have completed not less than 12 months of combined workshop skills training and approved seagoing service of 
which not less than six months will be seagoing service as part of an approved training programme which meets 
the requirements of Section A-III/6 of the STCW Code and is documented in an approved training record book, 
or otherwise not less than 36 months of combined workshop skills training and approved seagoing service of 
which not less than 30 months will be seagoing service in the engine department; 
2.3. have completed approved education and training and meet the standards of competence specified in Section 
A-III/6 of the STCW Code; and 
2.4. meet the standards of competence specified in Section A-VI/1, paragraph 2, Section A-VI/2, paragraphs 1 to 4, 
Section A-VI/3 paragraphs 1 to 4 and Section A-VI/4 paragraphs 1 to 3 of the STCW Code. 
3. Every Member State shall compare the standards of competence which it required of electro-technical officers for 
certificates issued before 1 January 2012 with those specified for the certificate in Section A-III/6 of the STCW Code, 
and shall determine the need for requiring those personnel to update their qualifications. 
4. Seafarers may be considered by the Member State to have met the requirements of this regulation if they have served 
in a relevant capacity on board a ship for a period of not less than 12 months within the last 60 months preceding 
the entry into force of this Directive and meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-III/6 of the STCW 
Code. 
5. Notwithstanding the above requirements of paragraphs 1 to 4, a suitably qualified person may be considered by a 
Member State able to perform certain functions of Section A-III/6. 
Regulation III/7 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of electro-technical rating 
1. Every electro-technical rating serving on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW 
propulsion power or more shall be duly certificated. 
2. Every candidate for certification shall: 
2.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
2.2. have completed approved seagoing service including not less than 12 months training and experience; or 
2.3. have completed approved training, including an approved period of seagoing service which shall not be less than 
six months; or 
2.4. have qualifications that meet the technical competences in table A-III/7 of the STCW Code and an approved 
period of seagoing service, which shall not be less than three months; and 
2.5. meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-III/7 of the STCW Code; 
3. Every Member State shall compare the standards of competence which it required of electro-technical ratings for 
certificates issued before 1 January 2012 with those specified for the certificate in Section A-III/7 of the STCW Code, 
and shall determine the need, if any, for requiring these personnel to update their qualifications. 
4. Seafarers may be considered by the Member State to have met the requirements of this regulation if they have served 
in a relevant capacity on board a ship for a period of not less than 12 months within the last 60 months preceding 
the entry into force of this Directive and meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-III/7 of the STCW 
Code.
EN 
L 343/96 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
5. Notwithstanding the above requirements of paragraphs 1 to 4, a suitably qualified person may be considered by a 
Member State able to perform certain functions of Section A-III/7. 
CHAPTER IV 
RADIO COMMUNICATION AND RADIO OPERATORS 
Explanatory note 
Mandatory provisions relating to radio watchkeeping are set forth in the Radio Regulations and in the SOLAS 74, as 
amended. Provisions for radio maintenance are set forth in the SOLAS 74, as amended, and the guidelines adopted by the 
International Maritime Organisation. 
Regulation IV/1 
Application 
1. Except as provided in point 2, the provisions of this chapter apply to radio operators on ships operating in the global 
maritime distress and safety system (GMDSS) as prescribed by the SOLAS 74, as amended. 
2. Radio operators on ships not required to comply with the provisions of the GMDSS in Chapter IV of the SOLAS 74 
are not required to meet the provisions of this chapter. Radio operators on these ships are, nevertheless, required to 
comply with the Radio Regulations. Member States shall ensure that the appropriate certificates as prescribed by the 
Radio Regulations are issued to or recognised in respect of such radio operators. 
Regulation IV/2 
Mandatory minimum requirements for certification of GMDSS radio operators 
1. Every person in charge of or performing radio duties on a ship required to participate in the GMDSS shall hold an 
appropriate certificate related to the GMDSS, issued or recognised by the Member State under the provisions of the 
Radio Regulations. 
2. In addition, every candidate for certification of competency under this regulation for service on a ship which is 
required by the SOLAS 74, as amended, to have a radio installation shall: 
2.1. be not less than 18 years of age; and 
2.2. have completed approved education and training and meet the standard of competence specified in Section 
A-IV/2 of the STCW Code. 
CHAPTER V 
SPECIAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONNEL ON CERTAIN TYPES OF SHIPS 
Regulation V/1-1 
Mandatory minimum requirements for the training and qualifications of masters, officers and ratings on oil and 
chemical tankers 
1. Officers and ratings assigned specific duties and responsibilities related to cargo or cargo equipment on oil or chemical 
tankers shall hold a certificate in basic training for oil and chemical tanker cargo operations. 
2. Every candidate for a certificate in basic training for oil and chemical tanker cargo operations shall have completed 
basic training in accordance with provisions of Section A-VI/1 of the STCW Code and shall have completed: 
2.1. at least three months of approved seagoing service on oil or chemical tankers and meet the standard of 
competence specified in Section A-V/1-1, paragraph 1 of the STCW Code; or 
2.2. an approved basic training for oil and chemical tanker cargo operations and meet the standard of competence 
specified in Section A-V/1-1, paragraph 1 of the STCW Code. 
3. Masters, chief engineer officers, chief mates, second engineer officers and any person with immediate responsibility for 
loading, discharging, care in transit, handling of cargo, tank cleaning or other cargo-related operations on oil tankers 
shall hold a certificate in advanced training for oil tanker cargo operations.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/97
4. Every candidate for a certificate in advanced training for oil tanker cargo operations shall: 
4.1. meet the requirements for certification in basic training for oil and chemical tanker cargo operations; and 
4.2. while qualified for certification in basic training for oil and chemical tanker cargo operations have: 
4.2.1. at least three months of approved seagoing service on oil tankers; or 
4.2.2. at least one month of approved onboard training on oil tankers in a supernumerary capacity which 
includes at least three loading and three unloading operations and is documented in an approved 
training record book taking into account guidance in Section B-V/1 of the STCW Code; and 
4.3. have completed approved advanced training for oil tanker cargo operations and meet the standard of competence 
specified in Section A-V/1-1, paragraph 2 of the STCW Code. 
5. Masters, chief engineer officers, chief mates, second engineer officers and any person with immediate responsibility for 
loading, discharging, care in transit, handling of cargo, tank cleaning or other cargo-related operations on chemical 
tankers shall hold a certificate in advanced training for chemical tanker cargo operations. 
6. Every candidate for a certificate in advanced training for chemical tanker cargo operations shall: 
6.1. meet the requirements for certification in basic training for oil and chemical tanker cargo operations; and 
6.2. while qualified for certification in basic training for oil and chemical tanker cargo operations have: 
6.2.1. at least three months of approved seagoing service on chemical tankers; or 
6.2.2. at least one month of approved onboard training on chemical tankers in a supernumerary capacity which 
includes at least three loading and three unloading operations and is documented in an approved training 
record book taking into account guidance in Section B-V/1 of the STCW Code; and 
6.3. have completed approved advanced training for chemical tanker cargo operations and meet the standard of 
competence specified in Section A-V/1-1, paragraph 3 of the STCW Code. 
7. Member States shall ensure that a certificate of proficiency is issued to seafarers, who are qualified in accordance with 
paragraph 2, 4 or 6 as appropriate, or that an existing certificate of competency or certificate of proficiency is duly 
endorsed. 
Regulation V/1-2 
Mandatory minimum requirements for the training and qualifications of masters, officers and ratings on 
liquefied gas tankers 
1. Officers and ratings assigned specific duties and responsibilities related to cargo or cargo equipment on liquefied gas 
tankers shall hold a certificate in basic training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations. 
2. Every candidate for a certificate in basic training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations shall have completed basic 
training in accordance with provisions of Section A-VI/1 of the STCW Code and shall have completed: 
2.1. at least three months of approved seagoing service on liquefied gas tankers and meet the standard of competence 
specified in Section A-V/1-2, paragraph 1 of the STCW Code; or 
2.2. an approved basic training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations and meet the standard of competence 
specified in Section A-V/1-2, paragraph 1 of the STCW Code.
EN 
L 343/98 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
3. Masters, chief engineer officers, chief mates, second engineer officers and any person with immediate responsibility for 
loading, discharging, care in transit, handling of cargo, tank cleaning or other cargo-related operations on liquefied gas 
tankers shall hold a certificate in advanced training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations. 
4. Every candidate for a certificate in advanced training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations shall: 
4.1. meet the requirements for certification in basic training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations; and 
4.2. while qualified for certification in basic training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations have: 
4.2.1. at least three months of approved seagoing service on liquefied gas tankers; or 
4.2.2. at least one month of approved onboard training on liquefied gas tankers in a supernumerary capacity 
which includes at least three loading and three unloading operations and is documented in an approved 
training record book taking into account guidance in Section B-V/1 of the STCW Code; and 
4.3. have completed approved advanced training for liquefied gas tanker cargo operations and meet the standard of 
competence specified in Section A-V/1-2, paragraph 2 of the STCW Code. 
5. Member States shall ensure that a certificate of proficiency is issued to seafarers, who are qualified in accordance with 
paragraph 2 or 4 as appropriate, or that an existing certificate of competency or certificate of proficiency is duly 
endorsed. 
Regulation V/2 
Mandatory minimum requirements for the training and qualifications of masters, officers, ratings and other 
personnel on passenger ships 
1. This Regulation applies to masters, officers, ratings and other personnel serving on board passenger ships engaged on 
international voyages. Member States shall determine the applicability of these requirements to personnel serving on 
passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages. 
2. Prior to being assigned shipboard duties on board passenger ships, seafarers shall have completed the training required 
by paragraphs 4 to 7 below in accordance with their capacities, duties and responsibilities. 
3. Seafarers who are required to be trained in accordance with paragraphs 4, 6 and 7 shall at intervals not exceeding five 
years undertake appropriate refresher training or be required to provide evidence of having achieved the required 
standard of competence within the previous five years. 
4. Masters, officers and other personnel designated on muster lists to assist passengers in emergency situations on board 
passenger ships shall have completed training in crowd management as specified in Section A-V/2, paragraph 1, of the 
STCW Code. 
5. Personnel providing direct service to passengers in passenger spaces on board passenger ships shall have completed the 
safety training specified in Section A-V/2, paragraph 2, of the STCW Code. 
6. Masters, chief engineer officers, chief mates, second engineer officers and any person designated on muster lists of 
having responsibility for the safety of passengers in emergency situations on board passenger ships shall have 
completed approved training in crisis management and human behaviour as specified in Section A-V/2, paragraph 
3 of the STCW Code. 
7. Masters, chief mates, chief engineer officers, second engineer officers and every person assigned immediate responsi­
bility for embarking and disembarking passengers, loading, discharging or securing cargo, or closing hull openings on 
board ro-ro passenger ships shall have completed approved training in passenger safety, cargo safety and hull integrity 
as specified in Section A-V/2, paragraph 4, of the STCW Code. 
8. Member States shall ensure that documentary evidence of the training which has been completed is issued to every 
person found qualified under the provisions of this regulation.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/99
CHAPTER VI 
EMERGENCY, OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY, SECURITY, MEDICAL CARE AND SURVIVAL FUNCTIONS 
Regulation VI/1 
Mandatory minimum requirements for safety familiarisation, basic training and instruction for all seafarers 
1. Seafarers shall receive familiarisation and basic training or instruction in accordance with Section A-VI/1 of the STCW 
Code and shall meet the appropriate standard of competence specified therein. 
2. Where basic training is not included in the qualification for the certificate to be issued, a certificate of proficiency shall 
be issued indicating that the holder has attended the course in basic training. 
Regulation VI/2 
Mandatory minimum requirements for the issue of certificates of proficiency in survival craft, rescue boats and 
fast rescue boats 
1. Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than fast rescue boats shall: 
1.1. be not less than 18 years of age; 
1.2. have approved seagoing service of not less than 12 months or have attended an approved training course and 
have approved seagoing service of not less than six months; and 
1.3. meet the standard of competence for certificates of proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats set out in 
Section A-VI/2, paragraphs 1 to 4, of the STCW Code. 
2. Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency in fast rescue boats shall: 
2.1. be the holder of a certificate of proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than fast rescue boats; 
2.2. have attended an approved training course; and 
2.3. meet the standard of competence for certificates of proficiency in fast rescue boats set out in Section A-VI/2, 
paragraphs 7 to 10, of the STCW Code. 
Regulation VI/3 
Mandatory minimum requirements for training in advanced firefighting 
1. Seafarers designated to control firefighting operations shall have successfully completed advanced training in tech­
niques for fighting fire with particular emphasis on organisation, tactics and command in accordance with the 
provisions of Section A-VI/3 paragraphs 1 to 4 of the STCW Code and shall meet the standard of competence 
specified therein. 
2. Where training in advanced firefighting is not included in the qualifications for the certificate to be issued, a certificate 
of proficiency shall be issued indicating that the holder has attended a course of training in advanced firefighting. 
Regulation VI/4 
Mandatory minimum requirements relating to medical first aid and medical care 
1. Seafarers designated to provide medical first aid on board ship shall meet the standard of competence in medical first 
aid specified in Section A-VI/4, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, of the STCW Code. 
2. Seafarers designated to take charge of medical care on board ship shall meet the standard of competence in medical 
care on board ships specified in Section A-VI/4, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, of the STCW Code. 
3. Where training in medical first aid or medical care is not included in the qualifications for the certificate to be issued, a 
certificate of proficiency shall be issued indicating that the holder has attended a course of training in medical first aid 
or in medical care.
EN 
L 343/100 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
Regulation VI/5 
Mandatory minimum requirements for the issue of certificates of proficiency for ship security officers 
1. Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency as ship security officer shall: 
1.1. have approved seagoing service of not less than 12 months or appropriate seagoing service and knowledge of 
ship operations; and 
1.2. meet the standard of competence for certification of proficiency as ship security officer, set out in Section A-VI/5, 
paragraphs 1 to 4, of the STCW Code. 
2. Member States shall ensure that every person found qualified under the provisions of this regulation is issued with a 
certificate of proficiency. 
Regulation VI/6 
Mandatory minimum requirements for security related training and instruction for all seafarers 
1. Seafarers shall receive security-related familiarisation and security-awareness training or instruction in accordance with 
Section A-VI/6, paragraphs 1 to 4 of the STCW Code and shall meet the appropriate standard of competence specified 
therein. 
2. Where security awareness is not included in the qualification for the certificate to be issued, a certificate of proficiency 
shall be issued indicating that the holder has attended the a course in security awareness training. 
3. Every Member State shall compare the security-related training or instruction it requires of seafarers who hold or can 
document qualifications before the entry into force of this Directive, with those specified in Section A-VI/6, paragraph 
4 of the STCW Code, and shall determine the need for requiring these seafarers to update their qualifications. 
Seafarers with designated security duties 
4. Seafarers with designated security duties shall meet the standard of competence specified in Section A-VI/6, paragraphs 
6 to 8 of the STCW Code. 
5. Where training in designated security duties is not included in the qualifications for the certificate to be issued, a 
certificate of proficiency shall be issued indicating that the holder has attended a course of training for designated 
security duties. 
6. Every Member State shall compare the security training standards required of seafarers with designated security duties 
who hold or can document qualifications before the entry into force of this directive with those specified in Section A- 
VI/6, paragraph 8 of the STCW Code, and shall determine the need for requiring these seafarers to update their 
qualifications. 
CHAPTER VII 
ALTERNATIVE CERTIFICATION 
Regulation VII/1 
Issue of alternative certificates 
1. Notwithstanding the requirements for certification laid down in Chapters II and III of this Annex, Member States may 
elect to issue or authorise the issue of certificates other than those mentioned in the regulations of those chapters, 
provided that: 
1.1. the associated functions and levels of responsibility to be stated on the certificates and in the endorsements are 
selected from and identical to those appearing in Sections A-II/1, A-II/2, A-II/3, A-II/4, A-II/5, A-III/1, A-III/2, 
A-III/3, A-III/4, A-III/5, and A-IV/2 of the STCW Code; 
1.2. the candidates have completed approved education and training and meet the requirements for standards of 
competence, prescribed in the relevant sections of the STCW Code and as set forth in Section A-VII/1 of this 
Code, for the functions and levels that are to be stated on the certificates and in the endorsements;
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/101
1.3. the candidates have completed approved seagoing service appropriate to the performance of the functions and 
levels that are to be stated on the certificate. The minimum duration of seagoing service shall be equivalent to the 
duration of seagoing service prescribed in Chapters II and III of this Annex. However, the minimum duration of 
seagoing service shall be not less than as prescribed in Section A-VII/2 of the STCW Code; 
1.4. the candidates for certification who are to perform the function of navigation at the operational level shall meet 
the applicable requirements of the regulations in Chapter IV, as appropriate, for performing designated radio 
duties in accordance with the Radio Regulations; 
1.5. the certificates are issued in accordance with the requirements of Article 5 of this Directive and the provisions set 
forth in Chapter VII of the STCW Code. 
2. No certificate shall be issued under this chapter unless the Member State has communicated the information required 
by the STCW Convention to the Commission. 
Regulation VII/2 
Certification of seafarers 
Every seafarer who performs any function or group of functions specified in tables A-II/1, A-II/2, A-II/3, A-II/4 or A-II/5 
of Chapter II or in tables A-III/1, A-III/2, A-III/3, or A-III/4 or A-III/5 of Chapter III or A-IV/2 of Chapter IV of the STCW 
Code shall hold a certificate of competency or certificate of proficiency, as applicable. 
Regulation VII/3 
Principles governing the issue of alternative certificates 
1. A Member State which elects to issue or authorise the issue of alternative certificates shall ensure that the following 
principles are observed: 
1.1. no alternative certification system shall be implemented unless it ensures a degree of safety at sea and has a 
preventive effect as regards pollution at least equivalent to that provided by the other chapters; and 
1.2. any arrangement for alternative certification issued under this chapter shall provide for the interchangeability of 
certificates with those issued under the other chapters. 
2. The principle of interchangeability in point 1 shall ensure that: 
2.1. seafarers certificated under the arrangements of Chapters II and/or III and those certificated under Chapter VII are 
able to serve on ships which have either traditional or other forms of shipboard organisation; and 
2.2. seafarers are not trained for specific shipboard arrangements in such a way as would impair their ability to take 
their skills elsewhere. 
3. In issuing any certificate under the provisions of this chapter the following principles shall be taken into account: 
3.1. the issue of alternative certificates shall not be used in itself: 
3.1.1. to reduce the number of crew on board; 
3.1.2. to lower the integrity of the profession or “deskill” seafarers; or 
3.1.3. to justify the assignment of the combined duties of the engine and deck watchkeeping officers to a single 
certificate holder during any particular watch; and 
3.2. the person in command shall be designated as the master and the legal position and authority of the master and 
others shall not be adversely affected by the implementation of any arrangement for alternative certification. 
4. The principles contained in points 1 and 2 shall ensure that the competency of both deck and engineer officers is 
maintained.’.
EN 
L 343/102 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
ANNEX II 
Point 3 of Annex II is replaced by the following: 
‘3. The Commission, assisted by the European Maritime Safety Agency and with the possible involvement of any 
Member State concerned, has confirmed, through an evaluation of that Party, which may include inspection of 
facilities and procedures, that the requirements of the STCW Convention regarding standards of competence, 
training and certification and quality standards are fully complied with.’.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/103
ANNEX III 
‘ANNEX V 
TYPE OF INFORMATION TO BE COMMUNICATED TO THE COMMISSION FOR STATISTICAL PURPOSES 
1. Where reference is made to this Annex, the following information specified in Section A-I/2, paragraph 9 of the STCW 
Code for all certificates of competency or endorsements attesting their issue, all endorsements attesting the recognition 
of certificates of competency issued by other countries, shall be provided and where marked (*) this provision shall be 
in an anonymised form as required by Article 25a(3): 
Certificates of competency (CoC)/Endorsements attesting their issue (EaI): 
— seafarer’s unique identifier, if available (*), 
— seafarer’s name (*), 
— seafarer’s date of birth, 
— seafarer’s nationality, 
— seafarer’s gender, 
— CoC endorsed number (*), 
— EaI number (*), 
— capacity(ies), 
— date of issue or the most recent date of revalidation of the document, 
— date of expiry, 
— status of the certificate, 
— limitations. 
Endorsements attesting the recognition of certificates of competency issued by other countries (EaR): 
— seafarer’s unique identifier, if available (*), 
— seafarer’s name (*), 
— seafarer’s date of birth, 
— seafarer’s nationality, 
— seafarer’s gender, 
— country issuing the original CoC, 
— original CoC number (*), 
— EaR number (*), 
— capacity(ies), 
— date of issue or the most recent date of revalidation of the document, 
— date of expiry,
EN 
L 343/104 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2012
— status of the endorsement, 
— limitations. 
2. Member States may provide, on a voluntary basis, information on the certificates of proficiency (CoP) issued to ratings 
in accordance with Chapters II, III, and VII of the Annex to the STCW Convention, such as: 
— seafarer’s unique identifier, if available (*), 
— seafarer’s name (*), 
— seafarer’s date of birth, 
— seafarer’s nationality, 
— seafarer’s gender, 
— CoP number (*), 
— capacity(ies), 
— date of issue or date of the most recent revalidation of the document, 
— date of expiry, 
— status of the CoP.’.
EN 
14.12.2012 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 343/105
