DIRECTIVE 2013/55/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 20 November 2013 
amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation 
(EU) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System 
(‘the IMI Regulation’) 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE 
EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, and in particular Articles 46, 53(1) and 62 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, 
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national 
parliaments, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and 
Social Committee ( 1 ), 
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure ( 2 ), 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of 
professional qualifications ( 3 ) consolidated a system of 
mutual recognition which was initially based on 15 
Directives. It provides for automatic recognition for a 
limited number of professions based on harmonised 
minimum training requirements (sectoral professions), a 
general system for the recognition of evidence of training 
and automatic recognition of professional experience. 
Directive 2005/36/EC also established a new system of 
free provision of services. It should be recalled that third- 
country family members of Union citizens benefit from 
equal treatment in accordance with Directive 2004/38/EC 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union 
and their family members to move and reside freely 
within the territory of the Member States ( 4 ). Third- 
country 
nationals 
may 
also 
benefit 
from 
equal 
treatment with regard to recognition of diplomas, 
certificates and other professional qualifications, in 
accordance with the relevant national procedures, under 
specific Union legal acts such as those on long-term 
residence, refugees, ‘blue card holders’ and scientific 
researchers. 
(2) 
In its Communication of 27 October 2010 entitled 
‘Single Market Act, Twelve levers to boost growth and 
strengthen confidence, ‘Working together to create new 
growth’, the 
Commission 
identified the 
need 
to 
modernise Union law in this area. On 23 October 
2011, 
the 
European 
Council 
in 
its 
conclusions 
supported 
such 
a 
modernisation 
and 
urged 
the 
European Parliament and the Council to reach a 
political agreement 
on 
the 
revision 
of 
Directive 
2005/36/EC by the end of 2012. In its resolution of 
15 November 2011 on the implementation of the 
Professional Qualifications Directive (2005/36/EC) ( 5 ), 
the European Parliament also invited the Commission 
to come forward with a proposal. The EU Citizenship 
report 2010 of 27 October 2010 entitled ‘Dismantling 
the obstacles to EU citizens’ rights’ underlines the need to 
lighten the administrative burden linked to the recog­
nition of professional qualifications. 
(3) 
Notaries who are appointed by an official act of 
government should be excluded from the scope of 
Directive 2005/36/EC in view of the specific and 
differing regimes applicable to them in individual 
Member States for accessing and pursuing the profession. 
(4) 
For the purposes of strengthening the internal market 
and promoting the free movement of professionals 
while ensuring a more efficient and transparent recog­
nition of professional qualifications, a European Profes­
sional Card would be of added value. In particular, that 
Card would be useful to facilitate temporary mobility and 
recognition under the automatic recognition system, as 
well as to promote a simplified recognition process under 
the general system. The purpose of the European Profes­
sional Card is to simplify the recognition process and to 
introduce cost and operational efficiencies that will 
benefit professionals and competent authorities. The 
introduction of a European Professional Card should 
take 
into 
account 
the 
views 
of 
the 
profession 
concerned and should be preceded by an assessment of 
its suitability for the profession concerned and its impact 
on Member States. That assessment should be conducted 
together with Member States, where necessary. The 
European Professional Card should be issued at the 
request of a professional and after submission of 
necessary documents and completion of related verifi­
cation procedures by the competent authorities. Where 
the European Professional Card is issued for the purpose 
of establishment, it should constitute a recognition
EN 
L 354/132 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013 
( 1 ) OJ C 191, 29.6.2012, p. 103. 
( 2 ) Position of the European Parliament of 9 October 2013 (not yet 
published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of 
15 November 2013. 
( 3 ) OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22. 
( 4 ) OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77. 
( 5 ) OJ C 153 E, 31.5.2013, p. 15.
decision and be treated as any other recognition decision 
under Directive 2005/36/EC. It should complement 
rather 
than 
replace 
any 
registration 
requirements 
associated with access to a particular profession. There 
is no need to introduce a European Professional Card for 
the legal professions for which professional cards are 
already implemented under the system provided for in 
Council Directive 77/249/EEC of 22 March 1977 to 
facilitate the effective exercise by lawyers of freedom to 
provide services ( 1 ) and Directive 98/5/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 
1998 to facilitate practice of the profession of lawyer on 
a permanent basis in a Member State other than that in 
which the qualification was obtained ( 2 ). 
(5) 
The functioning of the European Professional Card 
should be supported by the Internal Market Information 
System 
(IMI) 
established 
by 
Regulation 
(EU) 
No 1024/2012 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council ( 3 ). The Card and IMI should enhance synergies 
and trust among competent authorities, while at the 
same time eliminating duplication of administrative 
work and recognition procedures for the competent 
authorities, 
and 
creating 
more 
transparency 
and 
certainty for professionals. 
(6) 
The process for the application and issuing of the 
European Professional Card should be clearly structured 
and incorporate safeguards and the corresponding rights 
of appeal for the applicant. Implementing acts should 
specify translation requirements and the methods of 
payment of any fees to be provided by an applicant so 
that the workflow in IMI is not disrupted or impaired 
and the processing of the application is not delayed. 
Setting the level of fees is a matter for Member States. 
Member States should however notify the Commission 
about the level of fees set. The European Professional 
Card and the related workflow within IMI should 
ensure the integrity, authenticity and confidentiality of 
the data stored and avoid unlawful and unauthorised 
access to information contained therein. 
(7) 
Directive 2005/36/EC applies only to professionals who 
want to pursue the same profession in another Member 
State. There are cases where, in the host Member State, 
the activities concerned are part of a profession with a 
larger scope of activities than in the home Member State. 
If the differences between the fields of activity are so 
large that a full programme of education and training 
would be required from the professional to compensate 
for shortcomings, and if the professional so requests, a 
host Member State should under these particular circum­
stances grant partial access. However, where there are 
overriding reasons of general interest, as defined by the 
Court of Justice of the European Union in its case-law 
relating to Articles 49 and 56 of the Treaty on the 
Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and which 
may continue to evolve, a Member State should be 
able to refuse partial access. This may in particular be 
the case for health professions if they have public health 
or patient safety implications. Granting partial access 
should be without prejudice to the right of social 
partners to organise themselves. 
(8) 
In the interest of protecting local consumers in the host 
Member State, temporary and occasional provision of 
services in Member States should be subject to safe­
guards, in particular a requirement of a minimum of 
one year’s professional experience during the last 10 
years preceding the provision of services, in cases 
where the profession is not regulated in the home 
Member State. In the case of seasonal activities, 
Member States should have the possibility to carry out 
controls in order to verify the temporary and occasional 
nature of the services provided on their territory. To that 
end, the host Member State should be able to require, 
once a year, information about the services actually 
provided on its territory, in cases where such information 
has not been already communicated on a voluntary basis 
by the service provider. 
(9) 
Directive 2005/36/EC allows Member States to check the 
professional qualifications of the service provider prior to 
the first provision of service in the case of regulated 
professions that have public health or safety implications. 
This has led to legal uncertainty leaving it to the 
discretion of a competent authority to decide on the 
need for such a prior check. In order to ensure legal 
certainty, professionals should know from the outset 
whether a prior check of professional qualifications is 
necessary and when a decision can be expected. In any 
event, the conditions for such prior checks of profes­
sional qualifications under the free provision of services 
should not be more stringent than under the estab­
lishment rules. In the case of regulated professions that 
have public health or safety implications, Directive 
2005/36/EC should be without prejudice to the possi­
bility for Member States to impose an insurance cover 
obligation related to the professional acts in accordance 
with the rules applicable under Directive 2011/24/EU of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 
2011 on the application of patients’ rights in cross- 
border healthcare ( 4 ) and Directive 2006/123/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 
2006 on services in the internal market ( 5 ). 
(10) 
Vocational education and training systems have proved 
to be a useful tool for ensuring youth employment and 
enabling a smooth transition from training into working 
life. The review of Directive 2005/36/EC should therefore 
take their specificities fully into account.
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/133 
( 1 ) OJ L 78, 26.3.1977, p. 17. 
( 2 ) OJ L 77, 14.3.1998, p. 36. 
( 3 ) OJ L 316, 14.11.2012, p. 1. 
( 4 ) OJ L 88, 4.4.2011, p. 45. 
( 5 ) OJ L 376, 27.12.2006, p. 36.
(11) 
In order to apply the mechanism of recognition under 
the general system, it is necessary to group the various 
national education and training schemes into different 
levels. Those levels, which are established only for the 
purpose of the operation of the general system, should 
have no effect on the national education and training 
structures or on the competence of Member States in 
that field, including national policy for implementing 
the European Qualifications Framework (EQF). The EQF 
is a tool designed to promote the transparency and 
comparability of professional qualifications and can be 
a useful additional source of information for the 
competent authorities examining professional qualifi­
cations issued in other Member States. Following the 
Bologna process, higher education institutions have 
adapted the structure of their programmes to a two- 
cycle Bachelor’s and Master’s degree system. In order to 
ensure that the five levels outlined under Directive 
2005/36/EC are consistent with this new degree 
structure, Bachelor’s degree should be classified under 
level d and Master’s degree under level e. The five 
levels established for the operation of the general 
system should in principle no longer be used as a 
criterion for excluding Union citizens from the scope 
of Directive 2005/36/EC when this would be contrary 
to the principle of lifelong learning. 
(12) 
Applications for recognition from professionals who 
come from non-regulating Member States and who 
have one year of professional experience should be 
treated in the same way as those of professionals who 
come from a regulating Member State. Their professional 
qualifications should be compared to the professional 
qualifications required in the host Member State on the 
basis of the professional qualification levels set out in 
Directive 2005/36/EC. In the event of substantial differ­
ences, the competent authority should be able to impose 
compensation measures. Any mechanisms for assessing 
theoretical knowledge and practical skills which might be 
required for access to the profession as compensation 
measures, should guarantee and comply with the prin­
ciples of transparency and impartiality. 
(13) 
In the absence of harmonisation of the minimum 
training conditions for access to the professions 
governed by the general system, it should remain 
possible for the host Member State to impose a compen­
sation measure. Any such measure should be propor­
tionate and, in particular, take account of the knowledge, 
skills and competences acquired by the applicant in the 
course of his professional experience or through lifelong 
learning, formally validated to that end by a relevant 
body. The decision imposing a compensation measure 
should be duly justified in order to enable the 
applicant to better understand his situation and to seek 
judicial review before national courts under Directive 
2005/36/EC. 
(14) 
The review of Directive 2005/36/EC has shown a need to 
update and clarify with more flexibility the lists of 
industrial, commercial and craft activities in Annex IV, 
while maintaining a system of automatic recognition for 
those activities based on professional experience. Annex 
IV is currently based on the International Standard 
Industrial Classification of all Economic Activities (ISIC) 
dated from 1958 and no longer reflects the current 
structure of economic activities. The ISIC classification 
has been reviewed several times since 1958. Therefore, 
the Commission should be able to adapt Annex IV in 
order to maintain intact the system of automatic recog­
nition. 
(15) 
Continuous professional development contributes to the 
safe and effective practice of professionals who benefit 
from the automatic recognition of their professional 
qualifications. It is important to encourage the further 
strengthening of continuous professional development 
for those professions. Member States should in particular 
encourage continuous professional development for 
doctors of medicine, medical specialists, general practi­
tioners, nurses responsible for general care, dental prac­
titioners, specialised dental practitioners, veterinary 
surgeons, midwives, pharmacists and architects. The 
measures 
taken 
by 
Member 
States 
to 
promote 
continuous 
professional 
development 
for 
those 
professions should be communicated to the Commission, 
and Member States should exchange best practice in that 
area. Continuous professional development should cover 
technical, scientific, regulatory and ethical developments 
and motivate professionals to participate in lifelong 
learning relevant to their profession. 
(16) 
The system of automatic recognition on the basis of 
harmonised minimum training requirements depends 
on the timely notification of new or changed evidence 
of formal qualifications by the Member States and their 
publication by the Commission. Otherwise, holders of 
such qualifications have no guarantees that they can 
benefit from automatic recognition. In order to increase 
transparency and facilitate the examination of newly 
notified titles, Member States should provide information 
about the duration and content of the training 
programmes, which need to be in compliance with the 
minimum training requirements laid down in Directive 
2005/36/EC. 
(17) 
European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System 
(ECTS) credits are already used in a large majority of 
higher education institutions in the Union and their 
use is becoming more common also in courses leading 
to the qualifications required for the exercise of a 
regulated profession. Therefore, it is necessary to 
introduce the possibility to express the duration of a 
programme also in ECTS. That possibility should not 
affect the other requirements for automatic recognition. 
One ECTS credit corresponds to 25-30 hours of study 
whereas 60 credits are normally required for the 
completion of one academic year.
EN 
L 354/134 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(18) 
In the interest of ensuring a high level of public health 
and patient safety within the Union and modernising 
Directive 2005/36/EC, it is necessary to modify the 
criteria used to define the basic medical training so 
that conditions relating to the minimum number of 
years and hours become cumulative. The objective of 
this 
modification 
is 
not 
to 
lower 
the 
training 
requirements for basic medical education. 
(19) 
In the interest of enhancing the mobility of medical 
specialists who have already obtained a medical specialist 
qualification and afterwards follow another specialist 
training, Member States should be allowed to grant 
exemptions from some part of the training if such 
elements of the later training have already been 
completed during the former medical specialist training 
programme in a Member State. Member States should be 
allowed to grant, within certain boundaries, such 
exemptions for medical specialties which are covered 
by the automatic recognition system. 
(20) 
The nursing profession has significantly evolved in the 
last three decades: community-based healthcare, the use 
of more complex therapies and constantly developing 
technology presuppose a capacity for higher responsi­
bilities for nurses. Nurse training, the organisation of 
which still differs according to national traditions, 
should provide a more robust and more output- 
oriented assurance that the professional has acquired 
certain knowledge and skills during the training, and is 
able to apply at least certain competences in order to 
pursue the activities relevant to the profession. 
(21) 
In order to prepare midwives to meet complex healthcare 
needs relating to their activities, midwifery trainees 
should have a solid general education background 
before 
they 
start 
midwifery 
training. 
Therefore, 
admission to midwifery training should be increased to 
12 years of general education or successful examination 
of an equivalent level, except in the case of professionals 
who are already qualified as a nurse responsible for 
general care. Training of midwives should provide 
better assurance that the professional has acquired 
certain knowledge and skills necessary to pursue the 
activities of 
a 
midwife 
referred to 
in 
Directive 
2005/36/EC. 
(22) 
To simplify the system for automatic recognition of 
medical and dental specialties, such specialties should 
be covered by Directive 2005/36/EC if they are 
common to at least two-fifths of the Member States. 
(23) 
A significant number of Member States have decided to 
allow access to all activities in the field of pharmacy and 
the pursuit of these activities based on the recognition of 
qualifications of pharmacists acquired in another Member 
State since the entry into force of Directive 2005/36/EC. 
Such recognition of a professional qualification acquired 
in another Member State should not, however, prevent a 
Member State from maintaining non-discriminatory rules 
governing any geographical distribution of pharmacies 
on their territory because Directive 2005/36/EC does 
not coordinate such rules. However, any derogation 
from the automatic recognition of qualifications which 
is still necessary for a Member State should no longer 
exclude pharmacists who are already recognised by the 
Member State using such derogation and who have 
already been lawfully and effectively practising as a phar­
macist for a certain period on the territory of that 
Member State. 
(24) 
The functioning of the system of automatic recognition 
depends on confidence in the training conditions which 
underpin 
the 
qualifications 
of 
the 
professionals. 
Therefore, it is important that the minimum training 
conditions of architects reflect new developments in 
architectural education, in particular with respect to the 
recognised need to supplement academic training with 
professional 
experience 
under 
the 
supervision 
of 
qualified architects. At the same time, the minimum 
training conditions should be flexible enough to avoid 
unduly restricting the ability of Member States to 
organise their education systems. 
(25) 
Directive 2005/36/EC should, through the introduction 
of common training principles, promote a more 
automatic character of recognition of professional qualifi­
cations for those professions which do not currently 
benefit from it. This should take account of the 
competence of Member States to decide the professional 
qualifications required for the pursuit of professions in 
their territory as well as the contents and the organi­
sation of their systems of education and training. 
Common training principles should take the form of 
common training frameworks based on a common set 
of knowledge, skills and competences or common 
training tests. It should be possible for common 
training frameworks also to cover specialties that 
currently do not benefit from automatic recognition 
provisions under Directive 2005/36/EC and that relate 
to professions encompassed by Chapter III of Title III 
and that have clearly defined specific activities reserved 
to them. Common training frameworks on such 
specialties, in particular medical specialties, should offer 
a high level of public health and patient safety. Profes­
sional qualifications obtained under common training 
frameworks should automatically be recognised by 
Member States. Professional organisations which are 
representative at Union level and, under certain circum­
stances, national professional organisations or competent 
authorities should be able to submit suggestions for 
common training principles to the Commission, in 
order to allow for an assessment with the national coor­
dinators of the possible consequences of such principles 
for the national education and training systems, as well 
as for the national rules governing access to regulated 
professions.
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/135
(26) 
Directive 2005/36/EC already provides for the obligation 
for professionals to have the necessary language skills. 
The review of the application of that obligation has 
shown a need to clarify the role of competent authorities 
and employers, in particular in the interest of better 
ensuring patient safety. Competent authorities should 
be able to apply language controls after recognition of 
professional qualifications. It is important for professions 
that have patient safety implications in particular that 
language controls under Directive 2005/36/EC be 
applied before the professional accesses the profession 
in the host Member State. Language controls should 
however be reasonable and necessary for the professions 
in question and should not aim at excluding profes­
sionals from other Member States from the labour 
market in the host Member State. In order to ensure 
respect of the principle of proportionality, and in the 
interests of enhancing the mobility of professionals in 
the Union, the controls carried out by, or under the 
supervision of, a competent authority should be limited 
to the knowledge of one official language of the host 
Member State, or one administrative language of the 
host Member State, provided that it is also an official 
language of the Union. This should not preclude host 
Member States from encouraging professionals to 
acquire another language at a later stage if necessary 
for the professional activity to be pursued. Employers 
should also continue to play an important role in ascer­
taining the knowledge of languages necessary to carry 
out professional activities in their workplaces. 
(27) 
National rules organising the access to regulated 
professions should not constitute an obstacle to the 
mobility of young graduates. Therefore, when a 
graduate 
completes 
a 
professional 
traineeship 
in 
another Member State, the traineeship in question 
should be recognised when the graduate applies for 
accessing a regulated profession in the home Member 
State. The recognition of a professional traineeship 
completed in another Member State should be based 
on a clear written description of learning objectives and 
assigned tasks, to be determined by the trainee’s 
supervisor in the host Member State. Professional trai­
neeships completed in third countries should be taken 
into account by Member States when considering a 
request to access a regulated profession. 
(28) 
Directive 2005/36/EC provides for a system of national 
contact points. Due to the entry into force of Directive 
2006/123/EC and the establishment of points of single 
contact under that Directive, there is a risk of overlap. 
Therefore, the national contact points established by 
Directive 2005/36/EC should become assistance centres 
which should focus their activities on providing advice 
and assistance to citizens, including face-to-face advice, in 
order to ensure that the daily application of internal 
market rules in complex individual cases of citizens is 
followed up at national level. Where necessary, the 
assistance centres would liaise with competent authorities 
and assistance centres of other Member States. In respect 
of the European Professional Card, Member States should 
be free to decide whether the assistance centres are either 
to act as a competent authority in the home Member 
State or to support the relevant competent authority in 
the handling of applications for a European Professional 
Card and processing of the applicant’s individual file 
created within IMI (IMI file). In the context of free 
provision of services, if the profession concerned is not 
regulated in the home Member State, the assistance 
centres may also participate in the exchange of 
information envisaged for the purpose of administrative 
cooperation. 
(29) 
This Directive contributes to ensuring a high level of 
health and consumer protection. Directive 2005/36/EC 
already provides for detailed obligations for Member 
States to exchange information. Those obligations 
should be reinforced. In future, Member States should 
not only react to requests for information but their 
competent authorities should also be empowered 
within the boundaries of their competences to proac­
tively alert the competent authorities of other Member 
States about professionals who are no longer entitled to 
practise their profession. A specific alert mechanism is 
necessary for health professionals under Directive 
2005/36/EC. This should also apply to veterinary 
surgeons as well as to professionals exercising activities 
relating to the education of minors, including profes­
sionals working in childcare and early childhood 
education. The obligation to send an alert should apply 
only to the Member States where such professions are 
regulated. All Member States should be alerted if a 
professional is no longer entitled, due to a disciplinary 
action or criminal conviction, to practise, even tempor­
arily, the professional activities in a Member State. The 
alert should contain any available details of the definite 
or indefinite period to which the restriction or 
prohibition applies. This alert should be activated 
through IMI regardless of whether the professional has 
exercised any of the rights under Directive 2005/36/EC 
or has applied for recognition of his professional qualifi­
cations through the issuance of a European Professional 
Card or through any other method provided for by that 
Directive. The alert procedure should comply with Union 
law on the protection of personal data and fundamental 
rights. The alert procedure should not be designed to 
replace or adapt any arrangements between Member 
States on cooperation in the field of justice and home 
affairs. 
Competent 
authorities 
under 
Directive 
2005/36/EC should also not be required to contribute 
to such cooperation via alerts provided for under that 
Directive. 
(30) 
One of the major difficulties faced by a citizen who is 
interested in working in another Member State is the 
complexity and uncertainty of administrative procedures 
with which they have to comply. Directive 2006/123/EC 
already obliges Member States to provide easy access to 
information and to make it possible to complete 
procedures through the points of single contact. 
Citizens seeking recognition of their professional qualifi­
cations under Directive 2005/36/EC can already use the 
points of single contact if they are covered by Directive
EN 
L 354/136 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
2006/123/EC. However, job seekers and health profes­
sionals are not covered by Directive 2006/123/EC and 
available information remains scarce. There is therefore a 
need, from the user’s perspective, to specify that 
information and to ensure that such information is 
easily available. It is also important that Member States 
not only take responsibility at national level but also 
cooperate with each other and the Commission to 
ensure that professionals throughout the Union have 
easy access to user-friendly and multilingual information 
and are able to easily complete procedures through the 
points of single contact or the relevant competent auth­
orities. Links should be made available through other 
websites, such as the Your Europe portal. 
(31) 
In order to supplement or amend certain non-essential 
elements of Directive 2005/36/EC, the power to adopt 
acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU should be 
delegated to the Commission in respect of the updating 
of knowledge and skills referred to in Article 21(6), the 
updating of Annex I, the updating and clarifying the 
activities listed in Annex IV, the adaptations of points 
5.1.1 to 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2, 5.6.2 
and 5.7.1 of Annex V, adapting the minimum periods 
of training of medical and dental specialists, the inclusion 
in point 5.1.3 of Annex V of new medical specialties, the 
amendments to the list set out in points 5.2.1, 5.3.1, 
5.4.1, 5.5.1 and 5.6.1 of Annex V, the inclusion in 
point 5.3.3 of Annex V of new dental specialties, spec­
ifying the conditions of application of common training 
frameworks, and specifying the conditions of application 
of common training tests. It is of particular importance 
that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations 
during its preparatory work, including at expert level. 
The Commission, when preparing and drawing up 
delegated acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely 
and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to 
the European Parliament and to the Council. 
(32) 
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implemen­
tation of Directive 2005/36/EC, implementing powers 
should be conferred on the Commission. Those powers 
should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) 
No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules 
and general principles concerning mechanisms for 
control by the Member States of the Commission’s 
exercise of implementing powers ( 1 ). 
(33) 
Due to the technical nature of those implementing acts, 
the examination procedure should be used for the 
adoption of implementing acts concerning the intro­
duction of European Professional Cards for particular 
professions, the format of the European Professional 
Card, the processing of written applications, the trans­
lations to be provided by the applicant to support any 
application for a European Professional Card, details of 
documents required under Directive 2005/36/EC to 
present a complete application, procedures for making 
and processing payments for that Card, rules for how, 
when and for which documents competent authorities 
may request certified copies for the profession concerned, 
the technical specifications and the measures necessary to 
ensure 
integrity, 
confidentiality 
and 
accuracy 
of 
information contained in the European Professional 
Card and in the IMI file, the conditions and the 
procedures for issuing a European Professional Card, 
rules concerning the conditions of access to the IMI 
file, the technical means and the procedures for the 
verification of the authenticity and validity of a 
European Professional Card, and the application of the 
alert mechanism. 
(34) 
The Commission should, by means of implementing acts 
and, given their specific features, acting without the 
application of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, decide to 
reject a requested update of Annex I where the 
conditions set out in Directive 2005/36/EC are not 
fulfilled, ask the relevant Member State to refrain from 
applying the derogation as regards the choice between 
the adaptation period and aptitude test where that dero­
gation is inappropriate or is not in accordance with 
Union law, reject requested amendments of points 
5.1.1 to 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2, 5.6.2 or 
5.7.1 of Annex V where the conditions set out in 
Directive 2005/36/EC are not fulfilled, list the national 
professional qualifications and national professional titles 
benefiting from automatic recognition under common 
training framework, list the Member States in which 
the common training tests are to be organised, the 
frequency during a calendar year and other arrangements 
necessary for organising common training tests, and 
permit the Member State concerned to derogate from 
the relevant provisions of Directive 2005/36/EC for a 
limited period of time. 
(35) 
Following the positive experience with the mutual 
evaluation under Directive 2006/123/EC, a similar 
evaluation system should be included in Directive 
2005/36/EC. 
Member 
States 
should notify which 
professions they regulate, for which reasons, and 
discuss amongst themselves their findings. Such a 
system would contribute to more transparency in the 
professional services market. 
(36) 
The Commission should in due course assess the recog­
nition regime applicable to the evidence of formal qualifi­
cations as a nurse responsible for general care issued in 
Romania. Such an assessment should be based on the 
results of a special upgrading programme, which 
Romania should set up in accordance with its national 
laws, regulations and administrative provisions, and for 
which it should liaise with other Member States and the 
Commission. The purpose of such special upgrading 
programme should be to enable participants in that 
programme to upgrade their professional qualification 
to 
successfully satisfy all 
the 
minimum 
training 
requirements set out in Directive 2005/36/EC.
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/137 
( 1 ) OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13.
(37) 
Since the objectives of this Directive, namely the rational­
isation, simplification and improvement of the rules for 
the recognition of professional qualifications, cannot be 
sufficiently achieved by the Member States as it would 
inevitably result in divergent requirements and procedural 
regimes increasing regulatory complexity and causing 
unwarranted obstacles to mobility of professionals but 
can rather, by reason of coherence, transparency and 
compatibility, be better achieved at Union level, the 
Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the 
principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the 
Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the 
principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, 
this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary in 
order to achieve those objectives. 
(38) 
In accordance with the Joint Political Declaration of 
Member States and the Commission of 28 September 
2011 on explanatory documents ( 1 ), Member States 
have undertaken to accompany, in justified cases, the 
notification of their transposition measures with one or 
more documents explaining the relationship between the 
components of a directive and the corresponding parts of 
national transposition instruments. With regard to this 
Directive, the legislator considers the transmission of 
such documents to be justified. 
(39) 
The European Data Protection Supervisor was consulted 
in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EC) 
No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of 
individuals with regard to the processing of personal 
data by the Community institutions and bodies and on 
the free movement of such data ( 2 ) and delivered an 
opinion on 8 March 2012 ( 3 ). 
(40) 
Directive 
2005/36/EC 
and 
Regulation 
(EU) 
No 1024/2012 should therefore be amended accordingly, 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: 
Article 1 
Amendments to Directive 2005/36/EC 
Directive 2005/36/EC is amended as follows: 
(1) in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: 
‘This Directive also establishes rules concerning partial 
access to a regulated profession and recognition of profes­
sional traineeships pursued in another Member State.’; 
(2) Article 2 is amended as follows: 
(a) in paragraph 1, the following subparagraph is added: 
‘This Directive shall also apply to all nationals of a 
Member State who have pursued a professional trai­
neeship outside the home Member State.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is added: 
‘4. 
This Directive shall not apply to notaries who 
are appointed by an official act of government.’; 
(3) Article 3 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 
(i) points (f) and (h) are replaced by the following: 
‘(f) ‘professional experience’: the actual and lawful 
full-time or equivalent part-time pursuit of the 
profession concerned in a Member State; 
(h) ‘aptitude test’: a test of the professional 
knowledge, skills and competences of the 
applicant, carried out or recognised by the 
competent authorities of the host Member 
State with the aim of assessing the ability of 
the applicant to pursue a regulated profession 
in that Member State. 
In order to permit this test to be carried out, 
the competent authorities shall draw up a list 
of subjects which, on the basis of a 
comparison of the education and training 
required in the host Member State and that 
received by the applicant, are not covered by 
the diploma or other evidence of formal 
qualifications possessed by the applicant. 
The aptitude test must take account of the fact 
that the applicant is a qualified professional in 
the home Member State or the Member State 
from which the applicant comes. It shall cover 
subjects to be selected from those on the list, 
knowledge of which is essential in order to be
EN 
L 354/138 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013 
( 1 ) OJ C 369, 17.12.2011, p. 14. 
( 2 ) OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1. 
( 3 ) OJ C 137, 12.5.2012, p. 1.
able to pursue the profession in question in 
the host Member State. The test may also 
cover knowledge of the professional rules 
applicable to the activities in question in the 
host Member State. 
The detailed application of the aptitude test 
and the status, in the host Member State, of 
the applicant who wishes to prepare himself 
for the aptitude test in that Member State shall 
be determined by the competent authorities in 
that Member State;’; 
(ii) the following points are added: 
‘(j) ‘professional traineeship’: without prejudice to 
Article 46(4), a period of professional practice 
carried out under supervision provided it 
constitutes a condition for access to a 
regulated profession, and which can take 
place either during or after completion of an 
education leading to a diploma; 
(k) ‘European Professional Card’: an electronic 
certificate proving either that the professional 
has met all the necessary conditions to 
provide services in a host Member State on 
a temporary and occasional basis or the recog­
nition of professional qualifications for estab­
lishment in a host Member State; 
(l) 
‘lifelong learning’: all general education, voca­
tional education and training, non-formal 
education and informal learning undertaken 
throughout life, resulting in an improvement 
in knowledge, skills and competences, which 
may include professional ethics; 
(m) ‘overriding reasons of general interest’: reasons 
recognised as such in the case-law of the 
Court of Justice of the European Union; 
(n) ‘European Credit Transfer and Accumulation 
System or ECTS credits’: the credit system 
for higher education used in the European 
Higher Education Area.’; 
(b) in paragraph 2, the third subparagraph is replaced by 
the following: 
‘On each occasion that a Member State grants recog­
nition to an association or organisation referred to in 
the first subparagraph, it shall inform the Commission. 
The 
Commission 
shall 
examine 
whether 
that 
association or organisation fulfils the conditions 
provided for in the second subparagraph. In order to 
take due account of regulatory developments in 
Member States, the Commission shall be empowered 
to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
in order to update Annex I where the conditions 
provided for in the second subparagraph are satisfied. 
Where the conditions provided for in the second 
subparagraph are not satisfied, the Commission shall 
adopt an implementing act in order to reject the 
requested update of Annex I.’; 
(4) Article 4 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
The recognition of professional qualifications by 
the host Member State shall allow beneficiaries to gain 
access in that Member State to the same profession as 
that for which they are qualified in the home Member 
State and to pursue it in the host Member State under 
the same conditions as its nationals.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is added: 
‘3. 
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, partial 
access to a profession in the host Member State shall 
be granted under the conditions laid down in 
Article 4f.’; 
(5) the following articles are inserted: 
‘Article 4a 
European Professional Card 
1. 
Member States shall issue holders of a professional 
qualification with a European Professional Card upon their 
request and on condition that the Commission has 
adopted the relevant implementing acts provided for in 
paragraph 7.
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/139
2. 
When a European Professional Card has been 
introduced for a particular profession by means of 
relevant 
implementing 
acts 
adopted 
pursuant 
to 
paragraph 7, the holder of a professional qualification 
concerned may choose to apply for such a Card or 
to make use of the procedures provided for in Titles II 
and III. 
3. 
Member States shall ensure that the holder of a 
European Professional Card benefits from all the rights 
conferred by Articles 4b to 4e. 
4. 
Where the holder of a professional qualification 
intends to provide services under Title II other than 
those covered by Article 7(4), the competent authority 
of the home Member State shall issue the European Profes­
sional Card in accordance with Articles 4b and 4c. The 
European Professional Card shall, where applicable, 
constitute the declaration under Article 7. 
5. 
Where the holder of a professional qualification 
intends to establish himself in another Member State 
under Chapters I to IIIa of Title III or to provide services 
under Article 7(4), the competent authority of the home 
Member State shall complete all preparatory steps with 
regard to the individual file of the applicant created 
within the Internal Market Information System (IMI) (IMI 
file) as provided for in Articles 4b and 4d. The competent 
authority of the host Member State shall issue the 
European Professional Card in accordance with Articles 
4b and 4d. 
For the purpose of establishment, the issuance of a 
European 
Professional 
Card 
shall 
not 
provide 
an 
automatic right to practise a particular profession if 
there are registration requirements or other control 
procedures already in place in the host Member State 
before a European Professional Card is introduced for 
that profession. 
6. 
Member States shall designate competent authorities 
for dealing with IMI files and issuing European Profes­
sional Cards. Those authorities shall ensure an impartial, 
objective and timely processing of applications for 
European Professional Cards. The assistance centres 
referred to in Article 57b may also act in the capacity 
of a competent authority. Member States shall ensure 
that competent authorities and assistance centres inform 
citizens, including prospective applicants, about the func­
tioning and the added value of a European Professional 
Card for the professions for which it is available. 
7. 
The Commission shall, by means of implementing 
acts, adopt measures necessary to ensure the uniform 
application of the provisions on the European Professional 
Cards for those professions that meet the conditions laid 
down in the second subparagraph of this paragraph, 
including measures concerning the format of the 
European Professional Card, the processing of written 
applications, the translations to be provided by the 
applicant to support any application for a European 
Professional Card, details of the documents required 
pursuant to Article 7(2) or Annex VII to present a 
complete application and procedures for making and 
processing payments for a European Professional Card, 
taking into account the particularities of the profession 
concerned. The Commission shall also specify, by means 
of implementing acts, how, when and for which 
documents competent authorities may request certified 
copies in accordance with the second subparagraph of 
Article 4b(3), Articles 4d(2) and 4d(3) for the profession 
concerned. 
The introduction of a European Professional Card for a 
particular profession by means of the adoption of 
relevant implementing acts referred to in the first 
subparagraph shall be subject to all of the following 
conditions: 
(a) there is significant mobility or potential for significant 
mobility in the profession concerned; 
(b) there is sufficient interest expressed by the relevant 
stakeholders; 
(c) the profession or the education and training geared to 
the pursuit of the profession is regulated in a 
significant number of Member States. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance 
with 
the 
examination 
procedure 
referred 
to 
in 
Article 58(2). 
8. 
Any fees which applicants may incur in relation to 
administrative procedures to issue a European Professional 
Card shall be reasonable, proportionate and commensurate 
with the costs incurred by the home and the host Member 
States and shall not act as a disincentive to apply for a 
European Professional Card. 
Article 4b 
Application for a European Professional Card and 
creation of an IMI file 
1. 
The home Member State shall enable a holder of a 
professional qualification to apply for a European
EN 
L 354/140 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
Professional Card through an on-line tool, provided by the 
Commission, that automatically creates an IMI file for the 
particular applicant. Where a home Member State allows 
also for written applications, it shall put in place all 
necessary arrangements for the creation of the IMI file, 
any information to be sent to the applicant and the 
issuance of the European Professional Card. 
2. 
Applications shall be supported by the documents 
required in the implementing acts to be adopted 
pursuant to Article 4a(7). 
3. 
Within one week of receipt of the application, the 
competent authority of the home Member State shall 
acknowledge receipt of the application and inform the 
applicant of any missing document. 
Where applicable, the competent authority of the home 
Member State shall issue any supporting certificate 
required under this Directive. The competent authority of 
the home Member State shall verify whether the applicant 
is legally established in the home Member State and 
whether all the necessary documents which have been 
issued in the home Member State are valid and authentic. 
In the event of duly justified doubts, the competent 
authority of the home Member State shall consult the 
relevant body and may request from the applicant 
certified copies of documents. In case of subsequent appli­
cations by the same applicant, the competent authorities 
of the home and the host Member States may not request 
the re-submission of documents which are already 
contained in the IMI file and which are still valid. 
4. 
The Commission may, by means of implementing 
acts, adopt the technical specifications, the measures 
necessary to ensure integrity, confidentiality and accuracy 
of information contained in the European Professional 
Card and in the IMI file, and the conditions and the 
procedures for issuing a European Professional Card to 
its holder, including the possibility of downloading it or 
submitting updates for the IMI file. Those implementing 
acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article 58(2). 
Article 4c 
European Professional Card for the temporary and 
occasional provision of services other than those 
covered by Article 7(4) 
1. 
The competent authority of the home Member State 
shall verify the application and the supporting documents 
in the IMI file and issue the European Professional Card for 
the temporary and occasional provision of services other 
than those covered by Article 7(4) within three weeks. 
That time period shall start upon receipt of the missing 
documents referred to in the first subparagraph of 
Article 4b(3) or, if no further documents were requested, 
upon the expiry of the one-week period referred to in that 
subparagraph. It shall then transmit the European Profes­
sional Card immediately to the competent authority of 
each host Member State concerned and shall inform the 
applicant accordingly. The host Member State may not 
require any further declaration under Article 7 for the 
following 18 months. 
2. 
The decision of the competent authority of the home 
Member State, or the absence of a decision within the 
period of three weeks referred to in paragraph 1, shall 
be subject to appeal under national law. 
3. 
If a holder of a European Professional Card wishes to 
provide services in Member States other than those initially 
mentioned in the application referred to in paragraph 1 
that holder may apply for such extension. If the holder 
wishes to continue providing services beyond the period of 
18 months referred to in paragraph 1, that holder shall 
inform the competent authority accordingly. In either case, 
that holder shall also provide any information on material 
changes in the situation substantiated in the IMI file that 
may be required by the competent authority in the home 
Member State in accordance with the implementing acts to 
be adopted pursuant to Article 4a(7). The competent 
authority of the home Member State shall transmit the 
updated European Professional Card to the host Member 
States concerned. 
4. 
The European Professional Card shall be valid in the 
entire territory of all the host Member States concerned for 
as long as its holder maintains the right to practice on the 
basis of the documents and information contained in the 
IMI file. 
Article 4d 
European Professional Card for establishment and for 
the temporary and occasional provision of services 
under Article 7(4) 
1. 
The competent authority of the home Member State 
shall, within one month, verify the authenticity and 
validity of the supporting documents in the IMI file for 
the purpose of issuing a European Professional Card for 
establishment or for the temporary and occasional 
provision of services under Article 7(4). That time period 
shall start upon receipt of the missing documents referred 
to in the first subparagraph of Article 4b(3) or, if no 
further documents were requested, upon the expiry of
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/141
the one-week period referred to in that subparagraph. It 
shall then transmit the application immediately to the 
competent authority of the host Member State. The 
home Member State shall inform the applicant of the 
status of the application at the same time as it transmits 
the application to the host Member State. 
2. 
In the cases referred to in Articles 16, 21, 49a and 
49b, a host Member State shall decide whether to issue a 
European Professional Card under paragraph 1 within one 
month of receipt of the application transmitted by the 
home Member State. In the event of duly justified 
doubts, the host Member State may request additional 
information from, or the inclusion of a certified copy of 
a document by, the home Member State, which the latter 
shall provide no later than two weeks after the submission 
of the request. Subject to the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 5, the period of one month shall apply, 
notwithstanding any such request. 
3. 
In the cases referred to in Articles 7(4) and 14, a 
host Member State shall decide whether to issue a 
European Professional Card or to subject the holder of a 
professional qualification to compensation measures 
within two months of receipt of the application trans­
mitted by the home Member State. In the event of duly 
justified doubts, the host Member State may request 
additional information from, or the inclusion of a 
certified copy of a document by, the home Member 
State which the latter shall provide no later than two 
weeks after the submission of the request. Subject to the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 5, the period of two 
months shall apply, notwithstanding any such request. 
4. 
In the event that the host Member State does not 
receive the necessary information which it may require in 
accordance with this Directive for taking a decision on the 
issuance of the European Professional Card from either the 
home Member State or the applicant, it may refuse to issue 
the Card. Such refusal shall be duly justified. 
5. 
Where the host Member State fails to take a decision 
within the time limits set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Article or fails to organise an aptitude test in accordance 
with Article 7(4), the European Professional Card shall be 
deemed to be issued and shall be sent automatically, 
through IMI, to the holder of a professional qualification. 
The host Member State shall have the possibility to extend 
by two weeks the deadlines set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 
for the automatic issuance of the European Professional 
Card. It shall explain the reason for the extension and 
inform the applicant accordingly. Such an extension may 
be repeated once and only where it is strictly necessary, in 
particular for reasons relating to public health or the safety 
of the service recipients. 
6. 
The actions taken by the home Member State in 
accordance with paragraph 1 shall replace any application 
for recognition of professional qualifications under the 
national law of the host Member State. 
7. 
The decisions of the home and the host Member 
State adopted under paragraphs 1 to 5 or the absence of 
decision by the home Member State shall be subject to 
appeal under the national law of the Member State 
concerned. 
Article 4e 
Processing and access to data regarding the European 
Professional Card 
1. 
Without prejudice to the presumption of innocence, 
the competent authorities of the home and the host 
Member States shall update, in a timely manner, the 
corresponding IMI file with information regarding disci­
plinary actions or criminal sanctions which relate to a 
prohibition or restriction and which have consequences 
for the pursuit of activities by the holder of a European 
Professional Card under this Directive. In so doing they 
shall respect personal data protection rules provided for in 
Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of indi­
viduals with regard to the processing of personal data and 
on the free movement of such data (*) and Directive 
2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of 
personal data and the protection of privacy in the elec­
tronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and 
electronic 
communications) (**). 
Such 
updates 
shall 
include the deletion of information which is no longer 
required. The holder of the European Professional Card 
as well as the competent authorities that have access to 
the corresponding IMI file shall be informed immediately 
of any updates. That obligation shall be without prejudice 
to the alert obligations for Member States under 
Article 56a. 
2. 
The content of the information updates referred to in 
paragraph 1 shall be limited to the following: 
(a) the identity of the professional; 
(b) the profession concerned;
EN 
L 354/142 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(c) information about the national authority or court 
which has adopted the decision on restriction or 
prohibition; 
(d) the scope of the restriction or the prohibition; and 
(e) the period for which the restriction or the prohibition 
applies. 
3. 
Access to the information in the IMI file shall be 
limited to the competent authorities of the home and 
the host Member States, in accordance with Directive 
95/46/EC. The competent authorities shall inform the 
holder of the European Professional Card of the content 
of the IMI file upon that holder’s request. 
4. 
The information included in the European Profes­
sional Card shall be limited to the information that is 
necessary to ascertain its holder’s right to exercise the 
profession for which it has been issued, namely the 
holder’s name, surname, date and place of birth, 
profession, formal qualifications, and the applicable 
regime, competent authorities involved, Card number, 
security features and reference to a valid proof of 
identity. Information relating to professional experience 
acquired, or compensation measures passed, by the 
holder of the European Professional Card shall be 
included in the IMI file. 
5. 
The personal data included in the IMI file may be 
processed for as long as it is needed for the purpose of the 
recognition procedure as such and as evidence of the 
recognition or of the transmission of the declaration 
required under Article 7. Member States shall ensure that 
the holder of a European Professional Card has the right at 
any time, and at no cost to that holder, to request the 
rectification of inaccurate or incomplete data, or the 
deletion or blocking of the IMI file concerned. The 
holder shall be informed of this right at the time the 
European Professional Card is issued, and reminded of it 
every two years thereafter. The reminder shall be sent 
automatically via IMI where the initial application for the 
European Professional Card was submitted online. 
In the event of a request for deletion of an IMI file linked 
to a European Professional Card issued for the purpose of 
establishment or temporary and occasional provision of 
services under Article 7(4), the competent authorities of 
the host Member State concerned shall issue the holder of 
professional qualifications with evidence attesting to the 
recognition of his professional qualifications. 
6. 
In relation to the processing of personal data in the 
European Professional Card and all IMI files, the relevant 
competent authorities of the Member States shall be 
regarded as controllers within the meaning of point (d) 
of Article 2 of Directive 95/46/EC. In relation to its 
responsibilities under paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Article 
and the processing of personal data involved therein, the 
Commission shall be regarded as a controller within the 
meaning of point (d) of Article 2 of Regulation (EC) 
No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of indi­
viduals with regard to the processing of personal data by 
the Community institutions and bodies and on the free 
movement of such data (***). 
7. 
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, host Member 
States shall provide that employers, customers, patients, 
public authorities and other interested parties may verify 
the authenticity and validity of a European Professional 
Card presented to them by the Card holder. 
The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay 
down rules concerning access to the IMI file, and the 
technical means and the procedures for the verification 
referred to in the first subparagraph. Those implementing 
acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article 58(2). 
Article 4f 
Partial access 
1. 
The competent authority of the host Member State 
shall grant partial access, on a case-by-case basis, to a 
professional activity in its territory only when all the 
following conditions are fulfilled: 
(a) the professional is fully qualified to exercise in the 
home Member State the professional activity for 
which partial access is sought in the host Member 
State; 
(b) differences between the professional activity legally 
exercised in the home Member State and the 
regulated profession in the host Member State as 
such are so large that the application of compensation 
measures would amount to requiring the applicant to 
complete the full programme of education and training 
required in the host Member State to have access to 
the full regulated profession in the host Member State; 
(c) the professional activity can objectively be separated 
from other activities falling under the regulated 
profession in the host Member State.
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/143
For the purpose of point (c), the competent authority of 
the host Member State shall take into account whether the 
professional activity can be pursued autonomously in the 
home Member State. 
2. 
Partial access may be rejected if such rejection is 
justified by overriding reasons of general interest, suitable 
for securing the attainment of the objective pursued, and 
does not go beyond what is necessary to attain that 
objective. 
3. 
Applications for the purpose of establishment in a 
host Member State shall be examined in accordance with 
Chapters I and IV of Title III. 
4. 
Applications for the purpose of providing temporary 
and occasional services in the host Member State 
concerning professional activities that have public health 
or safety implications shall be examined in accordance 
with Title II. 
5. 
By derogation from the sixth subparagraph of 
Article 7(4) and Article 52(1), the professional activity 
shall be exercised under the professional title of the 
home Member State once partial access has been 
granted. The host Member State may require use of that 
professional title in the languages of the host Member 
State. Professionals benefiting from partial access shall 
clearly indicate to the service recipients the scope of 
their professional activities. 
6. 
This Article shall not apply to professionals bene­
fiting from automatic recognition of their professional 
qualifications under Chapters II, III and IIIa of Title III. 
___________ 
(*) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. 
(**) OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p. 37. 
(***) OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1.’; 
(6) in Article 5(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: 
‘(b) where the service provider moves, if he has pursued 
that profession in one or several Member States for at 
least one year during the last 10 years preceding the 
provision of services when the profession is not 
regulated in the Member State of establishment. The 
condition of one year’s pursuit shall not apply if the 
profession or the education and training leading to 
the profession is regulated.’; 
(7) Article 7 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: 
(i) points (d) and (e) are replaced by the following: 
‘(d) for cases referred to in point (b) of Article 5(1), 
any means of proof that the service provider 
has pursued the activity concerned for at least 
one year during the previous 10 years; 
(e) for professions in the security sector, in the 
health sector and professions related to the 
education of minors, including in childcare 
and early childhood education, where the 
Member State so requires for its own 
nationals, 
an 
attestation 
confirming 
the 
absence of temporary or final suspensions 
from exercising the profession or of criminal 
convictions;’; 
(ii) the following points are added: 
‘(f) for professions that have patient safety impli­
cations, a declaration about the applicant’s 
knowledge of the language necessary for prac­
tising the profession in the host Member State; 
(g) for professions covering the activities referred 
to in Article 16 and which were notified by a 
Member State in accordance with Article 59(2), 
a 
certificate concerning 
the 
nature 
and 
duration 
of 
the 
activity issued 
by 
the 
competent authority or body of the Member 
State where the service provider is established.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘2a. 
Submission of a required declaration by the 
service provider in accordance with paragraph 1 shall 
entitle that service provider to have access to the 
service activity or to exercise that activity in the 
entire territory of the Member State concerned. A 
Member State may require additional information 
listed in paragraph 2 concerning the professional 
qualifications of the service provider if:
EN 
L 354/144 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(a) the profession is regulated in parts of that Member 
State’s territory in a different manner; 
(b) such regulation is applicable also to all nationals of 
that Member State; 
(c) the differences in such regulation are justified by 
overriding reasons of general interest relating to 
public health or safety of service recipients; and 
(d) the Member State has no other means of obtaining 
such information.’; 
(c) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 
‘4. 
For the first provision of services, in the case of 
regulated professions that have public health or safety 
implications which do not benefit from automatic 
recognition under Chapter II, III or IIIa of Title III, 
the competent authority of the host Member State 
may check the professional qualifications of the 
service provider prior to the first provision of 
services. Such a prior check shall be possible only 
where the purpose of the check is to avoid serious 
damage to the health or safety of the service 
recipient due to a lack of professional qualification 
of the service provider and where the check does 
not go beyond what is necessary for that purpose. 
No later than one month after receipt of the 
declaration and accompanying documents, referred to 
in paragraphs 1 and 2, the competent authority shall 
inform the service provider of its decision: 
(a) not to check his professional qualifications; 
(b) having checked his professional qualifications: 
(i) to require the service provider to take an 
aptitude test; or 
(ii) to allow the provision of services. 
Where there is a difficulty which would result in delay 
in taking a decision under the second subparagraph, 
the competent authority shall notify the service 
provider of the reason for the delay within the same 
deadline. The difficulty shall be solved within one 
month of that notification and the decision finalised 
within two months of resolution of the difficulty. 
Where there is a substantial difference between the 
professional qualifications of the service provider and 
the training required in the host Member State, to the 
extent that that difference is such as to be harmful to 
public health or safety, and that it cannot be 
compensated by the service provider’s professional 
experience or by knowledge, skills and competences 
acquired through lifelong learning formally validated 
to that end by a relevant body, the host Member 
State shall give that service provider the opportunity 
to show, by means of an aptitude test, as referred to in 
point (b) of the second subparagraph, that they have 
acquired the knowledge, skills or competence that 
were lacking. The host Member State shall take a 
decision on that basis on whether to allow the 
provision of services. In any case, it must be possible 
to provide the service within one month of the 
decision taken in accordance with the second subpara­
graph. 
In the absence of a reaction of the competent 
authority within the deadlines set out in the second 
and third subparagraphs, the service may be provided. 
In cases where professional qualifications have been 
verified under this paragraph, the service shall be 
provided under the professional title of the host 
Member State.’; 
(8) in Article 8, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
The competent authorities of the host Member State 
may ask the competent authorities of the Member State of 
establishment, in the event of justified doubts, to provide 
any information relevant to the legality of the service 
provider’s establishment and good conduct, as well as 
the absence of any disciplinary or criminal sanctions of 
a professional nature. In the event that the competent 
authorities of the host Member State decide to check the 
service provider’s professional qualifications, they may ask 
the competent authorities of the Member State of estab­
lishment for information about the service provider’s 
training courses to the extent necessary to assess 
substantial differences likely to be harmful to public 
health or safety. The competent authorities of the 
Member State of establishment shall provide that 
information in accordance with Article 56. In the case 
of non-regulated professions in the home Member State, 
the assistance centres referred to in Article 57b may also 
provide such information.’;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/145
(9) Article 11 is amended as follows: 
(a) the first paragraph is amended as follows: 
(i) the introductory part is replaced by the following: 
‘For the purposes of Article 13 and Article 14(6), 
professional qualifications shall be grouped under 
the following levels:’; 
(ii) in point (c), point (ii) is replaced by the following: 
‘(ii) regulated education and training or, in the 
case of regulated professions, vocational 
training 
with 
a 
special 
structure, 
with 
competences going beyond what is provided 
for in level b, equivalent to the level of 
training provided for under point (i), if such 
training provides a comparable professional 
standard and prepares the trainee for a 
comparable level of responsibilities and 
functions provided that the diploma is 
accompanied by a certificate from the home 
Member State;’; 
(iii) points (d) and (e) are replaced by the following: 
‘(d) a diploma certifying that the holder has 
successfully completed training at post- 
secondary level of at least three and not 
more than four years’ duration, or of an 
equivalent duration on a part-time basis, 
which may in addition be expressed with an 
equivalent number of ECTS credits, at a 
university 
or 
establishment 
of 
higher 
education 
or 
another 
establishment 
of 
equivalent level and, where appropriate, that 
he has successfully completed the professional 
training required in addition to the post- 
secondary course; 
(e) a diploma certifying that the holder has 
successfully 
completed 
a 
post-secondary 
course of at least four years’ duration, or of 
an equivalent duration on a part-time basis, 
which may in addition be expressed with an 
equivalent number of ECTS credits, at a 
university 
or 
establishment 
of 
higher 
education 
or 
another 
establishment 
of 
equivalent level and, where appropriate, that 
he has successfully completed the professional 
training required in addition to the post- 
secondary course.’; 
(b) the second paragraph is deleted; 
(10) in Article 12, the first paragraph is replaced by the 
following: 
‘Any evidence of formal qualifications or set of evidence of 
formal qualifications issued by a competent authority in a 
Member State, certifying successful completion of training 
in the Union, on a full or part-time basis, within or 
outside formal programmes, which is recognised by that 
Member State as being of an equivalent level and which 
confers on the holder the same rights of access to or 
pursuit of a profession or prepares for the pursuit of 
that profession, shall be treated as evidence of formal 
qualifications referred to in Article 11, including the 
level in question.’; 
(11) Article 13 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 13 
Conditions for recognition 
1. 
If access to or pursuit of a regulated profession in a 
host Member State is contingent upon possession of 
specific 
professional 
qualifications, 
the 
competent 
authority of that Member State shall permit applicants to 
access and pursue that profession, under the same 
conditions as apply to its nationals, if they possess an 
attestation of competence or evidence of formal qualifi­
cations referred to in Article 11, required by another 
Member State in order to gain access to and pursue that 
profession on its territory. 
Attestations of competence or evidence of formal qualifi­
cations shall be issued by a competent authority in a 
Member State, designated in accordance with the laws, 
regulations or administrative provisions of that Member 
State. 
2. 
Access to, and pursuit of, a profession as described 
in paragraph 1 shall also be granted to applicants who 
have pursued the profession in question on a full-time 
basis for one year or for an equivalent overall duration 
on a part-time basis during the previous 10 years in 
another Member State which does not regulate that 
profession, and who possess one or more attestations of 
competence or evidence of formal qualifications issued by 
another Member State which does not regulate the 
profession.
EN 
L 354/146 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
Attestations of competence and evidence of formal qualifi­
cations shall satisfy the following conditions: 
(a) they are issued by a competent authority in a Member 
State, designated in accordance with the laws, regu­
lations or administrative provisions of that Member 
State; 
(b) they attest that the holder has been prepared for the 
pursuit of the profession in question. 
The one year of professional experience referred to in the 
first subparagraph may not, however, be required if the 
evidence of formal qualifications which the applicant 
possesses certifies regulated education and training. 
3. 
The host Member State shall accept the level attested 
under Article 11 by the home Member State, as well as the 
certificate by which the home Member State certifies that 
regulated education and training or vocational training 
with a special structure referred to in point (c)(ii) of 
Article 11 is equivalent to the level provided for in 
point (c)(i) of Article 11. 
4. 
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2 of 
this Article and from Article 14, the competent authority 
of the host Member State may refuse access to, and pursuit 
of, the profession to holders of an attestation of 
competence classified under point (a) of Article 11 
where the national professional qualification required to 
exercise the profession on its territory is classified under 
point (e) of Article 11.’; 
(12) Article 14 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Article 13 shall not preclude the host Member 
State from requiring the applicant to complete an 
adaptation period of up to three years or to take an 
aptitude test if: 
(a) the training the applicant has received covers 
substantially different matters than those covered 
by the evidence of formal qualifications required in 
the host Member State; 
(b) the regulated profession in the host Member State 
comprises one or more regulated professional 
activities which do not exist in the corresponding 
profession in the applicant’s home Member State, 
and the training required in the host Member State 
covers substantially different matters from those 
covered 
by 
the 
applicant’s 
attestation 
of 
competence or evidence of formal qualifications.’; 
(b) in paragraph 2, the third subparagraph is replaced by 
the following: 
‘Where the Commission considers that the derogation 
referred to in the second subparagraph is inappropriate 
or that it is not in accordance with Union law, it shall 
adopt an implementing act, within three months of 
receiving all necessary information, to ask the 
relevant Member State to refrain from taking the 
envisaged measure. In the absence of a response 
from the Commission within that deadline, the dero­
gation may be applied.’; 
(c) in paragraph 3, the following subparagraphs are added: 
‘By way of derogation from the principle of the right 
of the applicant to choose, as laid down in paragraph 
2, the host Member State may stipulate either an adap­
tation period or an aptitude test in the case of: 
(a) a holder of a professional qualification referred to 
in point (a) of Article 11, who applies for recog­
nition of his professional qualifications where the 
national professional qualification required is clas­
sified under point (c) of Article 11; or 
(b) a holder of a professional qualification referred to 
in point (b) of Article 11, who applies for recog­
nition of his professional qualifications where the 
national professional qualification required is clas­
sified under point (d) or (e) of Article 11. 
In the case of a holder of a professional qualification 
referred to in point (a) of Article 11 who applies for 
recognition of his professional qualifications where the 
national professional qualification required is classified 
under point (d) of Article 11, the host Member State 
may impose both an adaptation period and an aptitude 
test.’;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/147
(d) paragraphs 4 and 5 are replaced by the following: 
‘4. 
For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 5, ‘sub­
stantially different matters’ means matters in respect of 
which knowledge, skills and competences acquired are 
essential for pursuing the profession and with regard 
to which the training received by the migrant shows 
significant differences in terms of content from the 
training required by the host Member State. 
5. 
Paragraph 1 shall be applied with due regard 
to the principle of proportionality. In particular, if 
the host Member State intends to require the 
applicant to complete an adaptation period or take 
an aptitude test, it must first ascertain whether the 
knowledge, skills and competences acquired by the 
applicant in the course of his professional experience 
or through lifelong learning, and formally validated to 
that end by a relevant body, in any Member State or in 
a third country, is of such nature as to cover, in full or 
in part, the substantially different matters defined in 
paragraph 4.’; 
(e) the following paragraphs are added: 
‘6. 
The decision imposing an adaptation period or 
an aptitude test shall be duly justified. In particular, the 
applicant shall be provided with the following 
information: 
(a) the level of the professional qualification required 
in the host Member State and the level of the 
professional qualification held by the applicant in 
accordance with the classification set out in 
Article 11; and 
(b) the substantial differences referred to in paragraph 
4 and the reasons for which those differences 
cannot be compensated by knowledge, skills and 
competences acquired in the course of professional 
experience or through lifelong learning formally 
validated to that end by a relevant body. 
7. 
Member States shall ensure that an applicant has 
the possibility of taking the aptitude test referred to in 
paragraph 1 not later than six months after the initial 
decision imposing an aptitude test on the applicant.’; 
(13) Article 15 is deleted; 
(14) Article 20 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 20 
Adaptation of lists of activities in Annex IV 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 
acts in accordance with Article 57c concerning the adap­
tation of the lists of activities set out in Annex IV which 
are the subject of recognition of professional experience 
pursuant to Article 16, with a view to updating or clar­
ifying the activities listed in Annex IV in particular in order 
to further specify their scope and to take due account of 
the latest developments in the field of activity-based 
nomenclatures, provided that this does not involve any 
narrowing of the scope of the activities related to the 
individual categories and that there is no shift of activities 
between the existing lists I, II and III of Annex IV.’; 
(15) Article 21 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 
‘4. 
In respect of the operation of pharmacies that 
are not subject to territorial restrictions, a Member 
State may, by way of derogation, decide not to give 
effect to evidence of formal qualifications referred to in 
point 5.6.2 of Annex V, for the setting up of new 
pharmacies open to the public. For the purposes of 
this paragraph, pharmacies which have been open 
for less than three years shall also be considered as 
new pharmacies. 
That derogation may not be applied in respect of 
pharmacists whose formal qualifications have already 
been recognised by the competent authorities of the 
host Member State for other purposes and who have 
been effectively and lawfully engaged in the profes­
sional activities of a pharmacist for at least three 
consecutive years in that Member State.’; 
(b) paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 
‘6. 
Each Member State shall make access to, and 
pursuit of, the professional activities of doctors, 
nurses responsible for general care, dental practi­
tioners, veterinary surgeons, midwives and pharmacists 
subject 
to 
possession 
of 
evidence 
of 
formal 
qualifications referred to in points 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.1.4, 
5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2 and 5.6.2 of Annex V 
respectively, attesting that the professional concerned, 
over the duration of his training, has acquired, as 
appropriate, the knowledge, skills and competences 
referred to in Articles 24(3), 31(6), 31(7), 34(3), 
38(3), 40(3) and 44(3).
EN 
L 354/148 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
In order to take account of generally acknowledged 
scientific and technical progress, the Commission 
shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in 
accordance with Article 57c to update the knowledge 
and skills referred to in Articles 24(3), 31(6), 34(3), 
38(3), 40(3), 44(3) and 46(4) to reflect the evolution 
of Union law directly affecting the professionals 
concerned. 
Such updates shall not entail an amendment of 
existing essential legislative principles in Member 
States regarding the structure of professions as 
regards training and conditions of access by natural 
persons. Such updates shall respect the responsibility 
of the Member States for the organisation of education 
systems, as set out in Article 165(1) of the Treaty on 
the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).’; 
(c) paragraph 7 is deleted; 
(16) the following article is inserted: 
‘Article 21a 
Notification procedure 
1. 
Each Member State shall notify the Commission of 
the laws, regulations and administrative provisions which 
it adopts with regard to the issuing of evidence of formal 
qualifications in the professions covered by this Chapter. 
In the case of evidence of formal qualifications referred to 
in Section 8, notification in accordance with the first 
subparagraph shall also be addressed to the other 
Member States. 
2. 
The notification referred to in paragraph 1 shall 
include information about the duration and content of 
the training programmes. 
3. 
The notification referred to in paragraph 1 shall be 
transmitted via IMI. 
4. 
In order to take due account of legislative and 
administrative developments in the Member States, and 
on condition that the laws, regulations and administrative 
provisions notified pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article 
are in conformity with the conditions set out in this 
Chapter, the Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c in order to 
amend points 5.1.1 to 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 
5.5.2, 5.6.2 and 5.7.1 of Annex V, concerning the 
updating of the titles adopted by the Member States for 
evidence of formal qualifications and, where appropriate, 
the body which issues the evidence of formal qualifi­
cations, the certificate which accompanies it and the 
corresponding professional title. 
5. 
Where the legislative, regulatory and administrative 
provisions notified pursuant to paragraph 1 are not in 
conformity with the conditions set out in this Chapter, 
the Commission shall adopt an implementing act in 
order to reject the requested amendment of points 5.1.1 
to 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2, 5.6.2 or 5.7.1 of 
Annex V.’; 
(17) Article 22 is amended as follows: 
(a) in the first paragraph, point (b) is replaced by the 
following: 
‘(b) Member States shall, in accordance with the 
procedures specific to 
each Member 
State, 
ensure, by encouraging continuous professional 
development, that professionals whose profes­
sional qualification is covered by Chapter III of 
this Title are able to update their knowledge, 
skills and competences in order to maintain a 
safe and effective practice and keep abreast of 
professional developments.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is added: 
‘Member States shall communicate to the Commission 
the measures taken pursuant to point (b) of the first 
paragraph by 18 January 2016.’; 
(18) in Article 24, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
Basic medical training shall comprise a total of at 
least five years of study, which may in addition be 
expressed with the equivalent ECTS credits, and shall 
consist of at least 5 500 hours of theoretical and 
practical training provided by, or under the supervision 
of, a university.
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/149
For professionals who began their studies before 1 January 
1972, the course of training referred to in the first 
subparagraph may comprise six months of full-time 
practical training at university level under the supervision 
of the competent authorities.’; 
(19) Article 25 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Admission to specialist medical training shall be 
contingent upon completion and validation of a basic 
medical training programme as referred to in 
Article 24(2) in the course of which the trainee has 
acquired the relevant knowledge of basic medicine.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘3a. 
Member States may provide, in national legis­
lation, for partial exemptions from parts of the 
specialist medical training courses listed in point 
5.1.3 of Annex V, to be applied on a case-by-case 
basis provided that that part of the training has been 
followed already during another specialist training 
course listed in point 5.1.3 of Annex V, for which 
the professional has already obtained the professional 
qualification in a Member State. Member States shall 
ensure that the granted exemption equates to not more 
than half of the minimum duration of the specialist 
medical training course in question. 
Each Member State shall notify the Commission and 
the other Member States of the national legislation 
concerned for any such partial exemptions.’; 
(c) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 
‘5. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
concerning the adaptation of the minimum periods 
of training referred to in point 5.1.3 of Annex V to 
scientific and technical progress.’; 
(20) in Article 26, the second paragraph is replaced by the 
following: 
‘In order to take due account of changes in national legis­
lation and with a view to updating this Directive, the 
Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts 
in accordance with Article 57c concerning the inclusion in 
point 5.1.3 of Annex V of new medical specialties 
common to at least two-fifths of the Member States.’; 
(21) in Article 27, the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘2a. 
Member States shall recognise the qualifications of 
specialised doctors awarded in Italy, and listed in points 
5.1.2 and 5.1.3 of Annex V, to doctors who started their 
specialist training after 31 December 1983 and before 
1 January 1991, despite the training concerned not 
satisfying all the training requirements set out in Article 25, 
if the qualification is accompanied by a certificate issued 
by the competent Italian authorities stating that the doctor 
concerned has effectively and lawfully been engaged, in 
Italy, in the activities of a medical specialist in the same 
specialist area concerned, for at least seven consecutive 
years during the 10 years preceding the award of the 
certificate.’; 
(22) in Article 28, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Admission to specific training in general medical 
practice shall be contingent upon completion and vali­
dation of a basic medical training programme as referred 
to in Article 24(2) in the course of which the trainee has 
acquired the relevant knowledge of basic medicine.’; 
(23) Article 31 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Admission to training for nurses responsible for 
general care shall be contingent upon either: 
(a) completion of general education of 12 years, as 
attested by a diploma, certificate or other 
evidence issued by the competent authorities or 
bodies in a Member State or a certificate 
attesting success in an examination of an 
equivalent level and giving access to universities 
or to higher education institutions of a level 
recognised as equivalent; or
EN 
L 354/150 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(b) completion of general education of at least 10 
years, as attested by a diploma, certificate or 
other evidence issued by the competent authorities 
or bodies in a Member State or a certificate 
attesting success in an examination of an 
equivalent level and giving access to a vocational 
school or vocational training programme for nurs­
ing.’; 
(b) in paragraph 2, the second and third subparagraphs 
are replaced by the following: 
‘The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
concerning amendments to the list set out in point 
5.2.1 of Annex V with a view to adapting it to 
scientific and technical progress. 
The 
amendments 
referred 
to 
in 
the 
second 
subparagraph shall not entail an amendment of 
existing essential legislative principles in Member 
States regarding the structure of professions as 
regards training and conditions of access by natural 
persons. Such amendments shall respect the responsi­
bility of the Member States for the organisation of 
education systems, as set out in Article 165(1) TFEU.’; 
(c) in paragraph 3, the first subparagraph is replaced by 
the following: 
‘The training of nurses responsible for general care 
shall comprise a total of at least three years of study, 
which may in addition be expressed with the 
equivalent ECTS credits, and shall consist of at least 
4 600 hours of theoretical and clinical training, the 
duration of the theoretical training representing at 
least one third and the duration of the clinical 
training at least one half of the minimum duration 
of the training. Member States may grant partial 
exemptions to professionals who have received part 
of their training on courses which are of at least an 
equivalent level.’; 
(d) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 
‘4. 
Theoretical education is that part of nurse 
training from which trainee nurses acquire the profes­
sional knowledge, skills and competences required 
under paragraphs 6 and 7. The training shall be given 
by teachers of nursing care and by other competent 
persons, at universities, higher education institutions of 
a level recognised as equivalent or at vocational 
schools or through vocational training programmes 
for nursing.’; 
(e) in paragraph 5, the first subparagraph is replaced by 
the following: 
‘5. 
Clinical training is that part of nurse training in 
which trainee nurses learn, as part of a team and in 
direct contact with a healthy or sick individual and/or 
community, to organise, dispense and evaluate the 
required comprehensive nursing care, on the basis of 
the knowledge, skills and competences which they 
have acquired. The trainee nurse shall learn not only 
how to work in a team, but also how to lead a team 
and organise overall nursing care, including health 
education for individuals and small groups, within 
health institutes or in the community.’; 
(f) paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 
‘6. 
Training for nurses responsible for general care 
shall provide an assurance that the professional in 
question has acquired the following knowledge and 
skills: 
(a) comprehensive knowledge of the sciences on 
which general nursing is based, including sufficient 
understanding of 
the structure, physiological 
functions and behaviour of healthy and sick 
persons, and of the relationship between the state 
of health and the physical and social environment 
of the human being; 
(b) knowledge of the nature and ethics of the 
profession and of the general principles of health 
and nursing; 
(c) adequate clinical experience; such experience, 
which should be selected for its training value, 
should be gained under the supervision of 
qualified nursing staff and in places where the 
number of qualified staff and equipment are appro­
priate for the nursing care of the patient;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/151
(d) the ability to participate in the practical training of 
health personnel and experience of working with 
such personnel; 
(e) experience of working together with members of 
other professions in the health sector.’; 
(g) the following paragraph is added: 
‘7. 
Formal qualifications as a nurse responsible for 
general care shall provide evidence that the profes­
sional in question is able to apply at least the 
following competences regardless of whether the 
training took place at universities, higher education 
institutions of a level recognised as equivalent or at 
vocational schools or through vocational training 
programmes for nursing: 
(a) competence to independently diagnose the nursing 
care required using current theoretical and clinical 
knowledge and to plan, organise and implement 
nursing care when treating patients on the basis 
of the knowledge and skills acquired in accordance 
with points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 6 in order 
to improve professional practice; 
(b) competence to work together effectively with other 
actors in the health sector, including participation 
in the practical training of health personnel on the 
basis of the knowledge and skills acquired in 
accordance with points (d) and (e) of paragraph 6; 
(c) competence to empower individuals, families and 
groups towards healthy lifestyles and self-care on 
the basis of the knowledge and skills acquired in 
accordance with points (a) and (b) of paragraph 6; 
(d) competence 
to 
independently 
initiate 
life- 
preserving immediate measures and to carry out 
measures in crises and disaster situations; 
(e) competence to independently give advice to, 
instruct and support persons needing care and 
their attachment figures; 
(f) competence to independently assure the quality of, 
and to evaluate, nursing care; 
(g) competence to comprehensively communicate 
professionally and to cooperate with members of 
other professions in the health sector; 
(h) competence to analyse the care quality to improve 
his 
own 
professional 
practice 
as 
a 
nurse 
responsible for general care.’; 
(24) Article 33 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 2 is deleted; 
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 
‘3. 
Member States shall recognise evidence of 
formal qualifications in nursing that: 
(a) were awarded in Poland, to nurses who completed 
training before 1 May 2004, which did not comply 
with the minimum training requirements laid 
down in Article 31; and 
(b) are attested by the diploma ‘bachelor’ which was 
obtained on the basis of a special upgrading 
programme contained in: 
(i) Article 11 of the Act of 20 April 2004 on the 
amendment of the Act on professions of nurse 
and midwife and on some other legal acts 
(Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 
2004 No 92, pos. 885 and of 2007, No 176, 
pos. 1237) and the Regulation of the Minister 
of Health of 11 May 2004 on the detailed 
conditions of delivering studies for nurses 
and midwives, who hold a certificate of 
secondary 
school 
(final 
examination 
— 
matura) and are graduates of medical lyceum 
and medical vocational schools teaching in a 
profession of a nurse and a midwife (Official 
Journal of the Republic of Poland of 2004 
No 110, pos. 1170 and of 2010 No 65, pos. 
420); or 
(ii) Article 52.3 point 2 of the Act of 15 July 
2011 on professions of nurse and midwife 
(Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 
2011 No 174, pos. 1039) and the Regulation 
of the Minister of Health of 14 June 2012 on 
the detailed conditions of delivering higher 
education courses for nurses and midwives 
who hold a certificate of secondary school 
(final 
examination 
– 
matura) 
and 
are 
graduates of a medical secondary school or a 
post-secondary school teaching in a profession 
of a nurse and a midwife (Official Journal of 
the Republic of Poland of 2012, pos. 770),
EN 
L 354/152 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
for the purpose of verifying that the nurse 
concerned 
has 
a 
level 
of 
knowledge 
and 
competence comparable to that of nurses holding 
the qualifications listed for Poland in point 5.2.2 of 
Annex V.’; 
(25) Article 33a is replaced by the following: 
‘As 
regards 
the 
Romanian 
qualification 
of 
nurse 
responsible for general care, only the following acquired 
rights provisions shall apply: 
In the case of nationals of Member States who were 
trained as a nurse responsible for general care in 
Romania and whose training does not satisfy the 
minimum training requirements laid down in Article 31, 
Member States shall recognise the following evidence of 
formal qualifications as a nurse responsible for general 
care as being sufficient proof, provided that that 
evidence is accompanied by a certificate stating that 
those Member State nationals have effectively and 
lawfully been engaged in the activities of a nurse 
responsible for general care in Romania, including taking 
full responsibility for the planning, organisation and 
carrying out of the nursing care of patients, for a period 
of at least three consecutive years during the five years 
prior to the date of issue of the certificate: 
(a) Certificat de competențe profesionale de asistent 
medical generalist with post-secondary education 
obtained from a școală postliceală, attesting to 
training started before 1 January 2007; 
(b) Diplomă de absolvire de asistent medical generalist 
with short-time higher education studies, attesting to 
training started before 1 October 2003; 
(c) Diplomă de licență de asistent medical generalist with 
long-time higher education studies, attesting to 
training started before 1 October 2003.’; 
(26) in Article 34, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
Basic dental training shall comprise a total of at least 
five years of study, which may in addition be expressed 
with the equivalent ECTS credits, and shall consist of at 
least 5 000 hours of full-time theoretical and practical 
training that comprises at least the programme described 
in point 5.3.1 of Annex V and that is provided in a 
university, in a higher institute providing training 
recognised as being of an equivalent level or under the 
supervision of a university. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 
acts in accordance with Article 57c concerning the 
amendment of the list set out in point 5.3.1 of Annex 
V with a view to adapting it to scientific and technical 
progress. 
The amendments referred to in the second subparagraph 
shall not entail an amendment of existing essential legis­
lative principles in Member States regarding the structure 
of professions as regards training and conditions of access 
by natural persons. Such amendments shall respect the 
responsibility of the Member States for the organisation 
of education systems, as set out in Article 165(1) TFEU.’; 
(27) Article 35 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Admission to specialist dental training shall be 
contingent upon completion and validation of basic 
dental training referred to in Article 34, or possession 
of the documents referred to in Articles 23 and 37.’; 
(b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: 
(i) the second subparagraph is replaced by the 
following: 
‘Full-time specialist dental courses shall be of a 
minimum of three years’ duration and shall be 
supervised by the 
competent authorities or 
bodies. They shall involve the personal partici­
pation of the dental practitioner training to be a 
specialist in the activity and in the responsibilities 
of the establishment concerned.’;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/153
(ii) the third subparagraph is deleted; 
(c) the following paragraphs are added: 
‘4. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
concerning the adaptation of the minimum period of 
training referred to in paragraph 2 to scientific and 
technical progress. 
5. 
In order to take due account of changes in 
national legislation, and with a view to updating this 
Directive, the Commission shall be empowered to 
adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
concerning the inclusion in point 5.3.3 of Annex V 
of new dental specialties common to at least two-fifths 
of the Member States.’; 
(28) in Article 37, the following paragraphs are added: 
‘3. 
As regards evidence of formal qualifications of 
dental practitioners, Member States shall recognise such 
evidence pursuant to Article 21 in cases where the 
applicants began their training on or before 18 January 
2016. 
4. 
Each Member State shall recognise evidence of 
formal qualifications as a doctor issued in Spain to profes­
sionals who began their university medical training 
between 1 January 1986 and 31 December 1997, accom­
panied by a certificate issued by the Spanish competent 
authorities. 
The certificate shall confirm that the following conditions 
have been met: 
(a) the professional in question has successfully completed 
at least three years of study, certified by the Spanish 
competent authorities as being equivalent to the 
training referred to in Article 34; 
(b) the professional in question was effectively, lawfully 
and principally engaged in the activities referred to 
in Article 36 in Spain for at least three consecutive 
years during the five years preceding the award of the 
certificate; 
(c) the professional in question is authorised to engage in 
or is effectively, lawfully and principally engaged in the 
activities referred to in Article 36, under the same 
conditions as the holders of evidence of formal qualifi­
cations listed for Spain in point 5.3.2 of Annex V.’; 
(29) Article 38 is amended as follows: 
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
The 
training 
of 
veterinary surgeons 
shall 
comprise a total of at least five years of full-time 
theoretical and practical study, which may in 
addition be expressed with the equivalent ECTS 
credits, at a university or at a higher institute 
providing training recognised as being of an equivalent 
level, or under the supervision of a university, covering 
at least the study programme referred to in point 5.4.1 
of Annex V. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
concerning the amendment of the list set out in 
point 5.4.1 of Annex V with a view to adapting it 
to scientific and technical progress. 
The 
amendments 
referred 
to 
in 
the 
second 
subparagraph shall not entail an amendment of 
existing essential legislative principles in Member 
States regarding the structure of professions as 
regards training and conditions of access by natural 
persons. Such amendments shall respect the responsi­
bility of the Member States for the organisation of 
education systems, as set out in Article 165(1) TFEU.’; 
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 
‘3. 
Training as a veterinary surgeon shall provide an 
assurance that the professional in question has 
acquired the following knowledge and skills: 
(a) adequate knowledge of the sciences on which the 
activities of a veterinary surgeon are based and of 
the Union law relating to those activities;
EN 
L 354/154 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(b) adequate knowledge of the structure, functions, 
behaviour and physiological needs of animals, as 
well as the skills and competences needed for their 
husbandry, feeding, welfare, reproduction and 
hygiene in general; 
(c) the clinical, epidemiological and analytical skills 
and competences required for the prevention, 
diagnosis and treatment of the diseases of 
animals, including anaesthesia, aseptic surgery 
and painless death, whether considered individually 
or in groups, including specific knowledge of the 
diseases which may be transmitted to humans; 
(d) adequate knowledge, skills and competences for 
preventive 
medicine, 
including 
competences 
relating to inquiries and certification; 
(e) adequate knowledge of the hygiene and technology 
involved in the production, manufacture and 
putting into circulation of animal feedstuffs or 
foodstuffs of animal origin intended for human 
consumption, including the skills and competences 
required to understand and explain good practice 
in this regard; 
(f) the knowledge, skills and competences required for 
the responsible and sensible use of veterinary 
medicinal products, in order to treat the animals 
and to ensure the safety of the food chain and the 
protection of the environment.’; 
(30) Article 40 is amended as follows: 
(a) in paragraph 1, the third and fourth subparagraphs are 
replaced by the following: 
‘The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
concerning the amendment of the list set out in 
point 5.5.1 of Annex V with a view to adapting it 
to scientific and technical progress. 
The amendments referred to in the third subparagraph 
shall not entail an amendment of existing essential 
legislative principles in Member States regarding the 
structure of professions as regards training and 
conditions of access by natural persons. Such 
amendments shall respect the responsibility of the 
Member States for the organisation of education 
systems, as set out in Article 165(1) TFEU.’; 
(b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
Admission to training as a midwife shall be 
contingent upon one of the following conditions: 
(a) completion of at least 12 years of general school 
education or possession of a certificate attesting 
success in an examination, of an equivalent level, 
for admission to a midwifery school for route I; 
(b) possession of evidence of formal qualifications as a 
nurse responsible for general care referred to in 
point 5.2.2 of Annex V for route II.’; 
(c) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 
‘3. 
Training as a midwife shall provide an assurance 
that the professional in question has acquired the 
following knowledge and skills: 
(a) detailed knowledge of the sciences on which the 
activities of midwives are based, particularly 
midwifery, obstetrics and gynaecology; 
(b) adequate knowledge of the ethics of the profession 
and the legislation relevant for the practice of the 
profession; 
(c) adequate knowledge of general medical knowledge 
(biological functions, anatomy and physiology) and 
of pharmacology in the field of obstetrics and of 
the newly born, and also knowledge of the rela­
tionship between the state of health and the 
physical and social environment of the human 
being, and of his behaviour; 
(d) adequate clinical experience gained in approved 
institutions allowing the midwife to be able, inde­
pendently and under his own responsibility, to the 
extent necessary and excluding pathological situ­
ations, to manage the antenatal care, to conduct 
the delivery and its consequences in approved 
institutions, and to supervise labour and birth, 
postnatal care and neonatal resuscitation while 
awaiting a medical practitioner;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/155
(e) adequate understanding of the training of health 
personnel and experience of working with such 
personnel.’; 
(31) in Article 41, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
The evidence of formal qualifications as a midwife 
referred to in point 5.5.2 of Annex V shall be subject to 
automatic recognition pursuant to Article 21 in so far as 
they satisfy one of the following criteria: 
(a) full-time training of at least three years as a midwife, 
which may in addition be expressed with the 
equivalent ECTS credits, consisting of at least 4 600 
hours of theoretical and practical training, with at 
least one third of the minimum duration representing 
clinical training; 
(b) full-time training as a midwife of at least two years, 
which may in addition be expressed with the 
equivalent ECTS credits, consisting of at least 3 600 
hours, contingent upon possession of evidence of 
formal qualifications as a nurse responsible for 
general care referred to in point 5.2.2 of Annex V; 
(c) full-time training as a midwife of at least 18 months, 
which may in addition be expressed with the 
equivalent ECTS credits, consisting of at least 3 000 
hours, contingent upon possession of evidence of 
formal qualifications as a nurse responsible for 
general care referred to in point 5.2.2 of Annex V, 
and followed by one year’s professional practice for 
which a certificate has been issued in accordance 
with paragraph 2.’; 
(32) Article 43 is amended as follows: 
(a) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘1a. 
As regards evidence of formal qualifications of 
midwives, Member States shall recognise automatically 
those qualifications where the applicant started the 
training before 18 January 2016, and the admission 
requirement for such training was 10 years of general 
education or an equivalent level for route I, or 
completed training as a nurse responsible for general 
care as attested by evidence of formal qualification 
referred to in point 5.2.2 of Annex V before starting 
a midwifery training falling under route II.’; 
(b) paragraph 3 is deleted; 
(c) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 
‘4. 
Member States shall recognise evidence of 
formal qualifications in midwifery that: 
(a) were awarded in Poland, to midwives who 
completed training before 1 May 2004, which 
did not comply with the minimum training 
requirements laid down in Article 40; and 
(b) are attested by the diploma ‘bachelor’ which was 
obtained on the basis of a special upgrading 
programme contained in: 
(i) Article 11 of the Act of 20 April 2004 on the 
amendment of the Act on professions of nurse 
and midwife and on some other legal acts 
(Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 
2004 No 92, pos. 885 and of 2007 No 176, 
pos. 1237) and the Regulation of the Minister 
of Health of 11 May 2004 on the detailed 
conditions of delivering studies for nurses 
and midwives, who hold a certificate of 
secondary 
school 
(final 
examination 
— 
matura) and are graduates of medical lyceum 
and medical vocational schools teaching in a 
profession of a nurse and a midwife (Official 
Journal of the Republic of Poland of 2004 
No 110, pos. 1170 and of 2010 No 65, pos. 
420); or 
(ii) Article 53.3 point 3 of the Act of 15 July 
2011 on professions of nurse and midwife 
(Official Journal of the Republic of Poland of 
2011 No 174, pos. 1039) and the Regulation 
of the Minister of Health of 14 June 2012 on 
the detailed conditions of delivering higher 
education courses for nurses and midwives 
who hold a certificate of secondary school 
(final 
examination 
– 
matura) 
and 
are 
graduates of a medical secondary school or a 
post-secondary school teaching in a profession 
of a nurse and a midwife (Official Journal of 
the Republic of Poland of 2012, pos. 770),
EN 
L 354/156 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
for the purpose of verifying that the midwife 
concerned 
has 
a 
level 
of 
knowledge 
and 
competence comparable to that of midwives 
holding the qualifications listed for Poland in 
point 5.5.2 of Annex V.’; 
(33) in Article 44, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
Evidence of formal qualifications as a pharmacist 
shall attest to training of at least five years’ duration, 
which may in addition be expressed with the equivalent 
ECTS credits, comprising at least: 
(a) four years of full-time theoretical and practical training 
at a university or at a higher institute of a level 
recognised as equivalent, or under the supervision of 
a university; 
(b) during or at the end of the theoretical and practical 
training, six-month traineeship in a pharmacy which is 
open to the public or in a hospital under the super­
vision of that hospital’s pharmaceutical department. 
The training cycle referred to in this paragraph shall 
include at least the programme described in point 5.6.1 
of Annex V. The Commission shall be empowered to 
adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c 
concerning the amendment of the list set out in point 
5.6.1 of Annex V with a view to adapting it to scientific 
and technical progress, including the evolution of phar­
macological practice. 
The amendments referred to in the second subparagraph 
shall not entail an amendment of existing essential legis­
lative principles in Member States regarding the structure 
of professions as regards training and conditions of access 
by natural persons. Such amendments shall respect the 
responsibility of the Member States for the organisation 
of education systems, as set out in Article 165(1) TFEU.’; 
(34) in Article 45, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
The Member States shall ensure that the holders of 
evidence of formal qualifications in pharmacy at university 
level or a level recognised as equivalent, which satisfies the 
requirements of Article 44, are able to gain access to and 
pursue at least the following activities, subject to the 
requirement, where appropriate, of supplementary profes­
sional experience: 
(a) preparation of the pharmaceutical form of medicinal 
products; 
(b) manufacture and testing of medicinal products; 
(c) testing of medicinal products in a laboratory for the 
testing of medicinal products; 
(d) storage, preservation and distribution of medicinal 
products at the wholesale stage; 
(e) supply, preparation, testing, storage, distribution and 
dispensing of safe and efficacious medicinal products 
of the required quality in pharmacies open to the 
public; 
(f) preparation, testing, storage and dispensing of safe and 
efficacious medicinal products of the required quality 
in hospitals; 
(g) provision of information and advice on medicinal 
products as such, including on their appropriate use; 
(h) reporting of adverse reactions of pharmaceutical 
products to the competent authorities; 
(i) personalised support for patients who administer their 
medication; 
(j) contribution to local or national public health 
campaigns.’; 
(35) Article 46 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 46 
Training of architects 
1. 
Training as an architect shall comprise: 
(a) a total of at least five years of full-time study at a 
university or a comparable teaching institution, 
leading to successful completion of a university-level 
examination; or
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/157
(b) not less than four years of full-time study at a 
university or a comparable teaching institution 
leading to successful completion of a university-level 
examination, accompanied by a certificate attesting to 
the completion of two years of professional traineeship 
in accordance with paragraph 4. 
2. 
Architecture must be the principal component of the 
study referred to in paragraph 1. The study shall maintain 
a balance between theoretical and practical aspects of 
architectural training and shall guarantee at least the 
acquisition of the following knowledge, skills and compet­
ences: 
(a) the ability to create architectural designs that satisfy 
both aesthetic and technical requirements; 
(b) adequate knowledge of the history and theories of 
architecture and the related arts, technologies and 
human sciences; 
(c) knowledge of the fine arts as an influence on the 
quality of architectural design; 
(d) adequate knowledge of urban design, planning and the 
skills involved in the planning process; 
(e) understanding of the relationship between people and 
buildings, 
and 
between 
buildings 
and 
their 
environment, and of the need to relate buildings and 
the spaces between them to human needs and scale; 
(f) understanding of the profession of architect and the 
role of the architect in society, in particular in 
preparing briefs that take account of social factors; 
(g) understanding of the methods of investigation and 
preparation of the brief for a design project; 
(h) understanding of the structural design, and construc­
tional and engineering problems associated with 
building design; 
(i) adequate knowledge of physical problems and tech­
nologies and of the function of buildings so as to 
provide them with internal conditions of comfort 
and protection against the climate, in the framework 
of sustainable development; 
(j) the necessary design skills to meet building users’ 
requirements within the constraints imposed by cost 
factors and building regulations; 
(k) adequate knowledge of the industries, organisations, 
regulations and procedures involved in translating 
design concepts into buildings and integrating plans 
into overall planning. 
3. 
The number of years of academic study referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 2 may in addition be expressed with the 
equivalent ECTS credits. 
4. 
The professional traineeship referred to in point (b) 
of paragraph 1 shall take place only after completion of 
the first three years of the study. At least one year of the 
professional traineeship shall build upon knowledge, skills 
and competences acquired during the study referred to in 
paragraph 2. To that end, the professional traineeship shall 
be carried out under the supervision of a person or body 
that has been authorised by the competent authority in the 
home Member State. Such supervised traineeship may take 
place in any country. The professional traineeship shall be 
evaluated by the competent authority in the home Member 
State.’; 
(36) Article 47 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 47 
Derogations from the conditions for the training of 
architects 
By way of derogation from Article 46, the following shall 
also be recognised as complying with Article 21: training 
as part of social betterment schemes or part-time 
university studies which satisfies the requirements set out
EN 
L 354/158 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
in Article 46(2), as attested by an examination in archi­
tecture passed by a professional who has been working for 
seven years or more in the field of architecture under the 
supervision of an architect or architectural bureau. The 
examination must be of university level and be equivalent 
to the final examination referred to in point (b) of 
Article 46(1).’; 
(37) Article 49 is amended as follows: 
(a) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘1a. 
Paragraph 1 shall also apply to evidence of 
formal qualifications as an architect listed in Annex 
V, where the training started before 18 January 2016.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is added: 
‘3. 
Each Member State shall give the following 
evidence the same effect on its territory as evidence 
of formal qualifications it itself issues for the purposes 
of access to and pursuit of the professional activities of 
an architect: evidence of completion of training 
existing as of 5 August 1985 and commenced no 
later than 17 January 2014, provided by ‘Fachhoch­
schulen’ in the Federal Republic of Germany over a 
period of three years, satisfying the requirements set 
out in Article 46(2) and giving access to the activities 
referred to in Article 48 in that Member State under 
the professional title of ‘architect’, in so far as the 
training was followed by a four-year period of profes­
sional experience in the Federal Republic of Germany, 
as attested by a certificate issued by the competent 
authority in whose roll the name of the architect 
wishing to benefit from the provisions of this 
Directive appears.’; 
(38) in Title III, the following Chapter is inserted: 
‘Chapter IIIA 
Automatic recognition on the basis of common training 
principles 
Article 49a 
Common training framework 
1. 
For the purpose of this Article, ‘common training 
framework’ means a common set of minimum knowledge, 
skills and competences necessary for the pursuit of a 
specific profession. A common training framework shall 
not replace national training programmes unless a Member 
State decides otherwise under national law. For the 
purpose of access to and pursuit of a profession in 
Member States which regulate that profession, a Member 
State shall give evidence of professional qualifications 
acquired on the basis of such a framework the same 
effect in its territory as the evidence of formal qualifi­
cations which it itself issues, on condition that such 
framework fulfils the conditions laid down in paragraph 2. 
2. 
A common training framework shall comply with 
the following conditions: 
(a) the common training framework enables more profes­
sionals to move across Member States; 
(b) the profession to which the common training 
framework applies is regulated, or the education and 
training leading to the profession is regulated in at 
least one third of the Member States; 
(c) the common set of knowledge, skills and competences 
combines the knowledge, skills and competences 
required in the systems of education and training 
applicable in at least one third of the Member States; 
it shall be irrelevant whether the knowledge, skills and 
competences have been acquired as part of a general 
training course at a university or higher education 
institution or as part of a vocational training course; 
(d) the common training framework shall be based on 
levels of the EQF, as defined in Annex II of the Recom­
mendation of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 23 April 2008 on the establishment of 
the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong 
learning (*); 
(e) the profession concerned is neither covered by another 
common training framework nor subject to automatic 
recognition under Chapter III of Title III; 
(f) the common training framework has been prepared 
following a transparent due process, including the 
relevant stakeholders from Member States where the 
profession is not regulated;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/159
(g) the common training framework permits nationals 
from any Member State to be eligible for acquiring 
the professional qualification under such framework 
without first being required to be a member of any 
professional organisation or to be registered with such 
organisation. 
3. 
Representative professional organisations at Union 
level, as well as national professional organisations or 
competent authorities from at least one third of the 
Member 
States, 
may 
submit 
to 
the 
Commission 
suggestions for common training frameworks which 
meet the conditions laid down in paragraph 2. 
4. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c to establish 
a common training framework for a given profession 
based on the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 of 
this Article. 
5. 
A Member State shall be exempted from the 
obligation 
of 
introducing 
the 
common 
training 
framework referred to in paragraph 4 on its territory 
and from the obligation of granting automatic recognition 
to the professional qualifications acquired under that 
common training framework if one of the following 
conditions is fulfilled: 
(a) there are no education or training institutions available 
in its territory to offer such training for the profession 
concerned; 
(b) the introduction of the common training framework 
would adversely affect the organisation of its system of 
education and professional training; 
(c) there are substantial differences between the common 
training framework and the training required in its 
territory, which entail serious risks for public policy, 
public security, public health or for the safety of the 
service recipients or the protection of the environment. 
6. 
Member States shall, within six months of the entry 
into force of the delegated act referred to in paragraph 4, 
notify to the Commission and to the other Member States: 
(a) the national qualifications, and where applicable the 
national professional titles, that comply with the 
common training framework; or 
(b) any use of the exemption referred to in paragraph 5, 
along with a justification of which conditions under 
that paragraph were fulfilled. The Commission may, 
within three months, request further clarification if it 
considers that a Member State has provided no or 
insufficient justification that one of these conditions 
has been fulfilled. The Member State shall reply 
within three months of any such request. 
The Commission may adopt an implementing act to list 
the national professional qualifications and national 
professional titles benefiting from automatic recognition 
under the common training framework adopted in 
accordance with paragraph 4. 
7. 
This Article also applies to specialties of a profession, 
provided such specialties concern professional activities the 
access to and the pursuit of which are regulated in 
Member States, where the profession is already subject 
to automatic recognition under Chapter III of Title III, 
but not the specialty concerned. 
Article 49b 
Common training tests 
1. 
For the purpose of this Article, a ‘common training 
test’ means a standardised aptitude test available across 
participating Member States and reserved to holders of a 
particular professional qualification. Passing such a test in 
a Member State shall entitle the holder of a particular 
professional qualification to pursue the profession in any 
host Member State concerned under the same conditions 
as the holders of professional qualifications acquired in 
that Member State. 
2. 
The common training test shall comply with the 
following conditions: 
(a) the common training test enables more professionals 
to move across Member States; 
(b) the profession to which the common training test 
applies is regulated, or the education and training 
leading to the profession concerned is regulated in at 
least one third of the Member States;
EN 
L 354/160 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(c) the common training test has been prepared following 
a transparent due process, including the relevant stake­
holders from Member States where the profession is 
not regulated; 
(d) the common training test permits nationals from any 
Member State to participate in such a test and in the 
practical organisation of such tests in Member States 
without first being required to be a member of any 
professional organisation or to be registered with such 
organisation. 
3. 
Representative professional organisations at Union 
level, as well as national professional organisations or 
competent authorities from at least one third of the 
Member 
States, 
may 
submit 
to 
the 
Commission 
suggestions for common training tests which meet the 
conditions laid down in paragraph 2. 
4. 
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article 57c to establish 
the contents of a common training test, and the conditions 
required for taking and passing the test. 
5. 
A Member State shall be exempted from the 
obligation of organising the common training test 
referred to in paragraph 4 on its territory and from the 
obligation of granting automatic recognition to profes­
sionals who have passed the common training test if 
one of the following conditions is fulfilled: 
(a) the profession concerned is not regulated on its 
territory; 
(b) the contents of the common training test will not 
sufficiently mitigate serious risks for public health or 
the safety of the service recipients, which are relevant 
on its territory; 
(c) the contents of the common training test would render 
access to the profession significantly less attractive 
compared to national requirements. 
6. 
Member States shall, within six months of the entry 
into force of the delegated act referred to in paragraph 4, 
notify to the Commission and to the other Member States: 
(a) the available capacity for organising such tests; or 
(b) any use of the exemption referred to in paragraph 5, 
along with the justification of which conditions under 
that paragraph were fulfilled. The Commission may, 
within three months, request further clarification, if it 
considers that a Member State has provided no or 
insufficient justification that one of these conditions 
has been fulfilled. The Member State shall reply 
within three months of any such request. 
The Commission may adopt an implementing act to list 
the Member States in which the common training tests 
adopted in accordance with paragraph 4 are to be orga­
nised, the frequency during a calendar year and other 
arrangements necessary for organising common training 
tests across Member States. 
___________ 
(*) OJ C 111, 6.5.2008, p. 1.’; 
(39) in Article 50, the following paragraphs are inserted: 
‘3a. 
In the event of justified doubts, the host Member 
State may require from the competent authorities of a 
Member State confirmation of the fact that the applicant 
is not suspended or prohibited from the pursuit of the 
profession as a result of serious professional misconduct 
or conviction of criminal offences relating to the pursuit of 
any of his professional activities. 
3b. 
Exchange of information between competent auth­
orities of different Member States under this Article shall 
take place via IMI.’; 
(40) in Article 52, the following paragraph is added: 
‘3. 
A Member State may not reserve the use of the 
professional title to the holders of professional qualifi­
cations if it has not notified the association or organisation 
to the Commission and to the other Member States in 
accordance with Article 3(2).’;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/161
(41) Article 53 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 53 
Knowledge of languages 
1. 
Professionals benefiting from the recognition of 
professional qualifications shall have a knowledge of 
languages necessary for practising the profession in the 
host Member State. 
2. 
A Member State shall ensure that any controls 
carried out by, or under the supervision of, the 
competent authority for controlling compliance with the 
obligation under paragraph 1 shall be limited to the 
knowledge of one official language of the host Member 
State, or one administrative language of the host Member 
State provided that it is also an official language of the 
Union. 
3. 
Controls carried out in accordance with paragraph 2 
may be imposed if the profession to be practised has 
patient safety implications. Controls may be imposed in 
respect of other professions in cases where there is a 
serious and concrete doubt about the sufficiency of the 
professional’s language knowledge in respect of the profes­
sional activities that that professional intends to pursue. 
Controls may be carried out only after the issuance of a 
European Professional Card in accordance with Article 4d 
or after the recognition of a professional qualification, as 
the case may be. 
4. 
Any language controls shall be proportionate to the 
activity to be pursued. The professional concerned shall be 
allowed to appeal such controls under national law.’; 
(42) in Title IV the following article is inserted: 
‘Article 55a 
Recognition of professional traineeship 
1. 
If access to a regulated profession in the home 
Member State is contingent upon completion of a profes­
sional traineeship, the competent authority of the home 
Member State shall, when considering a request for auth­
orisation to exercise the regulated profession, recognise 
professional traineeships carried out in another Member 
State provided the traineeship is in accordance with the 
published guidelines referred to in paragraph 2, and shall 
take into account professional traineeships carried out in a 
third country. However, Member States may, in national 
legislation, set a reasonable limit on the duration of the 
part of the professional traineeship which can be carried 
out abroad. 
2. 
Recognition of the professional traineeship shall not 
replace any requirements in place to pass an examination 
in order to gain access to the profession in question. The 
competent authorities shall publish guidelines on the 
organisation and recognition of professional traineeships 
carried out in another Member State or in a third 
country, in particular on the role of the supervisor of 
the professional traineeship.’; 
(43) the title of Title V is replaced by the following: 
‘TITLE V 
ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION AND RESPONSIBILITY 
TOWARDS CITIZENS FOR IMPLEMENTATION’; 
(44) Article 56 is amended as follows: 
(a) in paragraph 2, the first subparagraph is replaced by 
the following: 
‘The competent authorities of the home and the host 
Member States shall exchange information regarding 
disciplinary action or criminal sanctions taken or any 
other serious, specific circumstances which are likely to 
have consequences for the pursuit of activities under 
this Directive. In so doing, they shall respect personal 
data protection rules provided for in Directives 
95/46/EC and 2002/58/EC.’; 
(b) the following paragraph is inserted: 
‘2a. 
For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2, the 
competent authorities shall use IMI.’;
EN 
L 354/162 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(c) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 
‘4. 
Each Member State shall designate a coordinator 
for the activities of the competent authorities referred 
to in paragraph 1 and shall inform other Member 
States and the Commission thereof. 
The coordinators’ tasks shall be: 
(a) to promote uniform application of this Directive; 
(b) to collect all the information which is relevant for 
application of this Directive, such as on the 
conditions for access to regulated professions in 
the Member States; 
(c) to examine suggestions for common training 
frameworks and common training tests; 
(d) to exchange information and best practice for the 
purpose of optimising continuous professional 
development in Member States; 
(e) to exchange information and best practice on the 
application of compensation measures referred to 
in Article 14. 
For the purpose of carrying out the task set out in 
point (b) of this paragraph, the coordinators may 
solicit the help of the assistance centres referred to 
in Article 57b.’; 
(45) the following article is inserted: 
‘Article 56a 
Alert mechanism 
1. 
The competent authorities of a Member State shall 
inform the competent authorities of all other Member 
States about a professional whose pursuit on the 
territory of that Member State of the following profes­
sional activities in their entirety or parts thereof has 
been restricted or prohibited, even temporarily, by 
national authorities or courts: 
(a) doctor of medicine and of general practice possessing 
evidence of a formal qualification referred to in points 
5.1.1 and 5.1.4 of Annex V; 
(b) specialist doctor of medicine possessing a title referred 
to in point 5.1.3 of Annex V; 
(c) nurse responsible for general care possessing evidence 
of a formal qualification referred to in point 5.2.2 of 
Annex V; 
(d) dental practitioner possessing evidence of a formal 
qualification referred to in point 5.3.2 of Annex V; 
(e) specialist dentists possessing evidence of a formal 
qualification referred to in point 5.3.3 of Annex V; 
(f) veterinary surgeon possessing evidence of a formal 
qualification referred to in point 5.4.2 of Annex V; 
(g) midwife possessing evidence of a formal qualification 
referred to in point 5.5.2 of Annex V; 
(h) pharmacist possessing evidence of a formal qualifi­
cation listed in point 5.6.2 of Annex V; 
(i) holders of certificates mentioned in point 2 of Annex 
VII attesting that the holder completed a training 
which satisfies the minimum requirements listed in 
Articles 24, 25, 31, 34, 35, 38, 40, or 44 respectively, 
but which started earlier than the reference dates of the 
qualifications listed in points 5.1.3, 5.1.4, 5.2.2, 5.3.2, 
5.3.3, 5.4.2, 5.5.2, 5.6.2 of Annex V; 
(j) holders of certificates of acquired rights as referred to 
in Articles 23, 27, 29, 33, 33a, 37, 43 and 43a;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/163
(k) other professionals exercising activities that have 
patient safety implications, where the professional is 
pursuing a profession regulated in that Member State; 
(l) professionals exercising activities relating to the 
education of minors, including in childcare and early 
childhood education, where the professional is 
pursuing a profession regulated in that Member State. 
2. 
Competent authorities shall send the information 
referred to in paragraph 1 by way of alert via IMI at the 
latest within three days from the date of adoption of the 
decision restricting or prohibiting pursuit of the profes­
sional activity in its entirety or in part by the professional 
concerned. That information shall be limited to the 
following: 
(a) the identity of the professional; 
(b) the profession concerned; 
(c) information about the national authority or court 
adopting the decision on restriction or prohibition; 
(d) the scope of the restriction or the prohibition; and 
(e) the period during which the restriction or the 
prohibition applies. 
3. 
The competent authorities of a Member State 
concerned shall, at the latest within three days from the 
date of adoption of the court decision, inform the 
competent authorities of all other Member States, by 
way of alert via IMI, about the identity of professionals 
who have applied for the recognition of a qualification 
under this Directive and who have subsequently been 
found by courts to have used falsified evidence of profes­
sional qualifications in this context. 
4. 
The processing of personal data for the purpose of 
the exchange of information referred to in paragraphs 1 
and 3 shall be carried out in accordance with Directives 
95/46/EC and 2002/58/EC. The processing of personal 
data by the Commission shall be carried out in accordance 
with Regulation (EC) No 45/2001. 
5. 
The competent authorities of all Member States shall 
be informed without delay when a prohibition or a 
restriction referred to in paragraph 1 has expired. For 
that purpose, the competent authority of the Member 
State which provides the information in accordance with 
paragraph 1 shall also be required to provide the date of 
expiry as well as any subsequent change to that date. 
6. 
Member States shall provide that professionals, in 
respect of whom alerts are sent to other Member States, 
are informed in writing of decisions on alerts at the same 
time as the alert itself, may appeal under national law 
against the decision or apply for rectification of such 
decisions and shall have access to remedies in respect of 
any damage caused by false alerts sent to other Member 
States, and in such cases the decision on the alert shall be 
qualified to indicate that it is subject to proceedings by the 
professional. 
7. 
Data regarding alerts may be processed within IMI 
for as long as they are valid. Alerts shall be deleted within 
three days from the date of adoption of the revoking 
decision or from the expiry of the prohibition or the 
restriction referred to in paragraph 1. 
8. 
The Commission shall adopt implementing acts for 
the application of the alert mechanism. Those imple­
menting acts shall include provisions on the authorities 
entitled to send or receive alerts and on the withdrawal 
and closure of alerts, and measures to ensure the security 
of processing. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article 58(2).’; 
(46) Article 57 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 57 
Central online access to information 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that the following 
information is available online through the points of 
single contact, referred to in Article 6 of Directive 
2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the 
internal market (*), and regularly updated:
EN 
L 354/164 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
(a) a list of all regulated professions in the Member State 
including contact details of the competent authorities 
for each regulated profession and the assistance centres 
referred to in Article 57b; 
(b) a list of the professions for which a European Profes­
sional Card is available, the functioning of that Card, 
including all related fees to be paid by professionals, 
and the competent authorities for issuing that Card; 
(c) a list of all professions for which the Member State 
applies Article 7(4) under national laws, regulations 
and administrative provisions; 
(d) a list of regulated education and training, and training 
with a special structure, referred to in point (c)(ii) of 
Article 11; 
(e) the requirements and procedures referred to in Articles 
7, 50, 51 and 53 for the professions regulated in the 
Member State, including all related fees to be paid by 
citizens and documents to be submitted by citizens to 
competent authorities; 
(f) details on how to appeal, under national laws, regu­
lations and administrative provisions, decisions of 
competent authorities adopted under this Directive. 
2. 
Member States shall ensure that the information 
referred to in paragraph 1 is provided in a clear and 
comprehensive way for users, that it is easily accessible 
remotely and by electronic means and that it is kept up 
to date. 
3. 
Member States shall ensure that any request for 
information addressed to the point of single contact is 
replied to as soon as possible. 
4. 
Member States and the Commission shall take 
accompanying measures in order to encourage points of 
single contact to make the information provided for in 
paragraph 1 available in other official languages of the 
Union. This shall not affect the legislation of Member 
States on the use of languages in their territory. 
5. 
Member States shall cooperate with each other and 
the Commission for the purpose of implementing para­
graphs 1, 2 and 4. 
___________ 
(*) OJ L 376, 27.12.2006, p. 36.’; 
(47) the following articles are inserted: 
‘Article 57a 
Procedures by electronic means 
1. 
Member States shall ensure that all requirements, 
procedures and formalities relating to matters covered by 
this Directive may be easily completed, remotely and by 
electronic means, through the relevant point of single 
contact or the relevant competent authorities. This shall 
not prevent competent authorities of Member States from 
requesting certified copies at a later stage in the event of 
justified doubts and where strictly necessary. 
2. 
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the carrying out of an 
adaptation period or aptitude test. 
3. 
Where it is justified for Member States to ask for 
advanced electronic signatures, as defined in point 2 of 
Article 2 of Directive 1999/93/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 1999 on 
a Community framework for electronic signatures (*), for 
the completion of procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of 
this Article, Member States shall accept electronic 
signatures in compliance with Commission Decision 
2009/767/EC of 16 October 2009 setting out measures 
facilitating the use of procedures by electronic means 
through the points of single contact under Directive 
2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council on services in the internal market (**) and 
provide for technical means to process documents with 
advanced electronic signature in formats defined by 
Commission Decision 2011/130/EU of 25 February 
2011 establishing minimum requirements for the cross- 
border processing of documents signed electronically by 
competent authorities under Directive 2006/123/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council on services in the 
internal market (***). 
4. 
All procedures shall be carried out in accordance 
with Article 8 of Directive 2006/123/EC relating to the 
points of single contact. The procedural time limits set out 
in Article 7(4) and Article 51 of this Directive shall 
commence at the point when an application or any 
missing document has been submitted by a citizen to a 
point of single contact or directly to the relevant 
competent authority. Any request for certified copies 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be 
considered as a request for missing documents.
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/165
Article 57b 
Assistance centres 
1. 
Each Member State shall designate, no later than 
18 January 2016, an assistance centre whose remit shall 
be to provide citizens, as well as assistance centres of the 
other Member States, with assistance concerning the recog­
nition of professional qualifications provided for in this 
Directive, including information on the national legislation 
governing the professions and the pursuit of those profes­
sions, social legislation, and, where appropriate, the rules 
of ethics. 
2. 
The assistance centres in host Member States shall 
assist citizens in exercising the rights conferred on them 
by this Directive, in cooperation, where appropriate, with 
the assistance centre in the home Member State and the 
competent authorities and the points of single contact in 
the host Member State. 
3. 
Any competent authority in the home or host 
Member State shall be required to fully cooperate with 
the assistance centre in the host Member State and 
where appropriate the home Member State, and provide 
all relevant information about individual cases to such 
assistance centres upon their request and subject to data 
protection rules in accordance with Directives 95/46/EC 
and 2002/58/EC. 
4. 
At the Commission’s request, the assistance centres 
shall inform the Commission of the result of enquiries 
with which they are dealing within two months after 
receiving such a request. 
Article 57c 
Exercise of the delegation 
1. 
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on 
the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in 
this Article. 
2. 
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in the 
third subparagraph of Article 3(2), Article 20, the second 
subparagraph of Article 21(6), Article 21a(4), Article 25(5), 
the second paragraph of Article 26, the second 
subparagraph of Article 31(2), the second subparagraph 
of Article 34(2), Article 35(4) and (5), the second 
subparagraph of Article 38(1), the third subparagraph of 
Article 40(1), the second subparagraph of Article 44(2), 
Article 49a(4) and Article 49b(4) shall be conferred on the 
Commission for a period of five years from 17 January 
2014. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect 
of the delegation of power not later than nine months 
before the end of the five-year period. The delegation of 
power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical 
duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council 
opposes such extension not later than three months before 
the end of each period. 
3. 
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in the 
third subparagraph of Article 3(2), Article 20, the second 
subparagraph of Article 21(6), Article 21a(4), Article 25(5), 
the second paragraph of Article 26, the second 
subparagraph of Article 31(2), the second subparagraph 
of Article 34(2), Article 35(4) and (5), the second 
subparagraph of Article 38(1), the third subparagraph of 
Article 40(1), the second subparagraph of Article 44(2), 
Article 49a(4) and Article 49b(4) may be revoked at any 
time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A 
decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of 
the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the 
day following the publication of the decision in the Official 
Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified 
therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts 
already in force. 
4. 
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission 
shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament 
and to the Council. 
5. 
A delegated act adopted pursuant to the third 
subparagraph of Article 3(2), Article 20, the second 
subparagraph of Article 21(6), Article 21a(4), Article 25(5), 
the second paragraph of Article 26, the second 
subparagraph of Article 31(2), the second subparagraph 
of Article 34(2), Article 35(4) and (5), the second 
subparagraph of Article 38(1), the third subparagraph of 
Article 40(1), the second subparagraph of Article 44(2), 
Article 49a(4) and Article 49b(4) shall enter into force 
only if no objection has been expressed either by the 
European Parliament or the Council within a period of 
two months of notification of that act to the European 
Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that 
period, the European Parliament and the Council have 
both informed the Commission that they will not object. 
That period shall be extended by two months at the 
initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council. 
___________ 
(*) OJ L 13, 19.1.2000, p. 12. 
(**) OJ L 274, 20.10.2009, p. 36. 
(***) OJ L 53, 26.2.2011, p. 66.’; 
(48) Article 58 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 58 
Committee procedure 
1. 
The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee 
on the recognition of professional qualifications. That 
committee shall be a committee within the meaning of 
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011.
EN 
L 354/166 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
2. 
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 
of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.’; 
(49) Article 59 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 59 
Transparency 
1. 
Member States shall notify to the Commission a list 
of existing regulated professions, specifying the activities 
covered by each profession, and a list of regulated 
education and training, and training with a special 
structure, referred to in point (c)(ii) of Article 11, in 
their territory by 18 January 2016. Any change to those 
lists shall also be notified to the Commission without 
undue delay. The Commission shall set up and maintain 
a publicly available database of regulated professions, 
including a general description of activities covered by 
each profession. 
2. 
By 18 January 2016, Member States shall notify to 
the Commission the list of professions for which a prior 
check of qualifications is necessary under Article 7(4). 
Member States shall provide the Commission with a 
specific justification for the inclusion of each of those 
professions on that list. 
3. 
Member States shall examine whether requirements 
under their legal system restricting the access to a 
profession or its pursuit to the holders of a specific profes­
sional qualification, including the use of professional titles 
and the professional activities allowed under such title, 
referred to in this Article as ‘requirements’ are compatible 
with the following principles: 
(a) requirements must be neither directly nor indirectly 
discriminatory on the basis of nationality or residence; 
(b) requirements must be justified by overriding reasons of 
general interest; 
(c) requirements must be suitable for securing the 
attainment of the objective pursued and must not go 
beyond what is necessary to attain that objective. 
4. 
Paragraph 1 shall also apply to professions regulated 
in a Member State by an association or organisation 
within the meaning of Article 3(2) and any requirements 
for membership of those associations or organisations. 
5. 
By 18 January 2016, Member States shall provide 
the Commission with information on the requirements 
they intend to maintain and the reasons for considering 
that those requirements comply with paragraph 3. Member 
States shall provide information on the requirements they 
subsequently introduced, and the reasons for considering 
that those requirements comply with paragraph 3, within 
six months of the adoption of the measure. 
6. 
By 18 January 2016, and every two years thereafter, 
Member States shall also submit a report to the 
Commission about the requirements which have been 
removed or made less stringent. 
7. 
The Commission shall forward the reports referred to 
in paragraph 6 to the other Member States which shall 
submit their observations within six months. Within the 
same period of six months, the Commission shall consult 
interested parties, including the professions concerned. 
8. 
The Commission shall provide a summary report 
based on the information provided by Member States to 
the Group of Coordinators established under Commission 
Decision 2007/172/EC of 19 March 2007 setting up the 
group of coordinators for the recognition of professional 
qualifications (*), which may make observations. 
9. 
In light of the observations provided for in para­
graphs 7 and 8, the Commission shall, by 18 January 
2017, submit its final findings to the European Parliament 
and the Council, accompanied where appropriate by 
proposals for further initiatives. 
___________ 
(*) OJ L 79, 20.3.2007, p. 38.’; 
(50) Article 60 is amended as follows: 
(a) in paragraph 1, the following subparagraph is added: 
‘As from 18 January 2016 the statistical summary of 
decisions taken referred to in the first subparagraph 
shall contain detailed information on the number 
and types of decisions taken in accordance with this 
Directive, including the types of decisions on partial 
access taken by competent authorities in accordance 
with Article 4f, and a description of the main 
problems arising from application of this Directive.’;
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/167
(b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 
‘2. 
By 18 January 2019, and every five years there­
after, the Commission shall publish a report on the 
implementation of this Directive. 
The first such report shall focus in particular on the 
new elements introduced in this Directive and consider 
in particular the following issues: 
(a) the functioning of the European Professional Card; 
(b) the modernisation of the knowledge, skills and 
competences for the professions covered by 
Chapter III of Title III, including the list of 
competences referred to in Article 31(7); 
(c) the 
functioning 
of 
the 
common 
training 
frameworks and common training tests; 
(d) the results of the special upgrading programme 
laid down under Romanian laws, regulations and 
administrative provisions for holders of the 
evidence of formal qualifications mentioned in 
Article 33a, as well as for holders of evidence of 
formal qualifications of post-secondary level, with 
a view to assessing the need to review the current 
provisions governing the acquired rights regime 
applicable to the Romanian evidence of formal 
qualifications as nurse responsible for general care. 
Member States shall provide all necessary information 
for the preparation of that report.’; 
(51) in Article 61, the second paragraph is replaced by the 
following: 
‘Where appropriate, the Commission shall adopt an imple­
menting act to permit the Member State in question to 
derogate from the relevant provision for a limited period 
of time.’; 
(52) Annexes II and III are deleted; 
(53) in point 1 of Annex VII, the following point is added: 
‘(g) Where the Member State so requires for its own 
nationals, an attestation confirming the absence of 
temporary or final suspensions from exercising the 
profession or of criminal convictions.’. 
Article 2 
Amendment to Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 
Point 2 of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 is 
replaced by the following: 
‘2. Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of 
the Council (*): Articles 4a to 4e, Article 8, Article 21a, 
Article 50, Article 56 and Article 56a. 
___________ 
(*) OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22.’. 
Article 3 
Transposition 
1. 
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations 
and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this 
Directive by 18 January 2016. 
2. 
Any Member State which on 17 January 2014 provides 
access to training as a midwife for route I under Article 40(2) of 
Directive 2005/36/EC after completion of at least the first 10 
years of general school education, shall bring into force the 
laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to 
comply with the admission requirements of training as a 
midwife under point (a) of Article 40(2) of that Directive by 
18 January 2020. 
3. 
Member States shall forthwith communicate to the 
Commission the text of the measures referred to in paragraphs 
1 and 2. 
4. 
When Member States adopt the measures referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 2, they shall contain a reference to this 
Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the 
occasion of their official publication. The methods of making 
such reference shall be laid down by Member States. 
5. 
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the 
text of the main measures of national law which they adopt in 
the field covered by this Directive.
EN 
L 354/168 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
Article 4 
Entry into force 
This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official 
Journal of the European Union. 
Article 5 
Addressees 
This Directive is addressed to the Member States. 
Done at Strasbourg, 20 November 2013. 
For the European Parliament 
The President 
M. SCHULZ 
For the Council 
The President 
V. LEŠKEVIČIUS
EN 
28.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 354/169
Commission statement 
The Commission will, when preparing the delegated acts referred to in Article 57c(2), ensure a simulta­
neous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the European Parliament and the 
Council, and will carry out appropriate and transparent consultations well in advance, in particular with 
experts from competent authorities and bodies, professional associations and educational establishments of 
all the Member States, and where appropriate with experts from social partners.
EN 
L 354/170 
Official Journal of the European Union 
28.12.2013
