COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/911 
of 30 June 2020 
specifying the characteristics of small-area wireless access points pursuant to Article 57(2) of 
Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and the Council establishing the European 
Electronic Communications Code 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 
establishing the European Electronic Communications Code (1), and in particular Article 57(2) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
As recognised by Directive (EU) 2018/1972, since low power small-area wireless access points are likely to have a 
positive impact on the use of radio spectrum and on the development of wireless communications in the Union, the 
deployment of small-area wireless access points should be facilitated through a permit-exempt deployment regime. 
(2) 
A small-area wireless access point comprises different elements such as a signal processing unit, an antenna system, 
cable connections and casing. In some cases, the antenna system or portions thereof could be installed separately 
from the other elements of a small-area wireless access point and connected by one or more dedicated cables. This 
may be the case for distributed antenna systems or a distributed radio system used by one or multiple operators. A 
small-area wireless access point may be designed to serve two or more spectrum users. 
(3) 
In order to ensure public acceptance and sustainable deployment, small-area wireless access points subject to the 
second subparagraph of Article 57(1) of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 should have minimal visual impact. To achieve 
this, they should be either invisible or mounted in a visually non-obtrusive way onto their supporting structure. 
Their operation should also ensure a high level of protection of public health, as laid down in Council 
Recommendation 1999/519/EC (2) on the limitation of exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields 
(EMF). 
(4) 
Directive 2014/53/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) on the harmonisation of the laws of the 
Member States relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment provides that radio equipment, 
including a small-area wireless access point, shall be constructed so as to ensure the protection of people’s health 
and safety. 
(5) 
The physical and technical characteristics of small-area wireless access points subject to the second subparagraph of 
Article 57(1) of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 should therefore be defined in terms of maximum volume, restrictions on 
weight and maximum emission power for user connectivity. The choice of maximum volume to delimit the visual 
impact of a small-area wireless access point should allow design flexibility and adaptability to the physical and 
technical characteristics of the supporting structure. 
(6) 
The study for the Commission ‘Light Deployment Regime for Small-Area Wireless Access Points 
(SAWAPs) (4)’demonstrates that a volume limit of 20 litres should be sufficient to contain the main elements of a 
small-area wireless access point, while ensuring its unobtrusive character. This maximum volume should apply to 
any deployment of a small-area wireless access point serving one or more spectrum users, as well as of multiple 
(1) OJ L 321, 17.12.2018, p. 36. 
(2) Council Recommendation 1999/519/EC of 12 July 1999 on the limitation of exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields 
(0 Hz to 300 GHz) (OJ L 199, 30.7.1999, p. 59). 
(3) Directive 2014/53/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the 
Member States relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment and repealing Directive 1999/5/EC (OJ L 153, 
22.5.2014, p. 62). 
(4) Smart 2018/0017, https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/463e2d3d-1d8f-11ea-95ab-01aa75ed71a1/language-en/ 
format-PDF/source-112125706 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 208/48                                                                                                                                           
1.7.2020   
small-area wireless access points sharing an infrastructure site of small surface, such as a light pole, a traffic light, a 
billboard or a bus stop, which due to its physical dimensions and/or dense replication in a given area is likely to 
generate visual clutter. 
(7) 
Small-area wireless access points, should comply with the European harmonised standard EN 62232:2017 (5) 
‘Determination of RF field strength, power density and specific absorption rate (SAR) in the vicinity of radiocommunication 
base stations for the purpose of evaluating human exposure’, which provides a methodology for the installation of base 
stations taking into account their emission power for the purpose of evaluating human exposure to the electro- 
magnetic fields (‘EMF’), in compliance with the limits set in Recommendation 1999/519/EC. 
(8) 
This standard applies to all type of base stations divided into five installation classes corresponding to different limits 
of their equivalent isotropical radiated power (EIRP) of a few milliwatt (Class E0), 2 Watt (Class E2), 10 Watt (Class 
E10), 100 Watt (Class E100) and above 100 Watt (Class E+) respectively. Out of these classes, considering the 
installation safety distances to be respected under this standard and since Directive (EU) 2018/1972 provides that 
small-area wireless access points should be low power equipment, this Regulation should only apply to the 
installation classes E0, E2 and E10. Table 2 of clause 6.2.4 of EN 62232:2017 requires that the lowest radiating part 
of the antenna of a Class E10 has a height of at least 2,2 metres above the general public walkway to ensure a 
distance of at least 20 cm between the main antenna lobe and the human body of a 2 m tall person (6). 
(9) 
For aesthetic reasons, the indoor installation of small-area wireless access points of Class E10, which are likely to 
utilise the maximum volume limit of 20 litres, should be limited to large indoor places with a ceiling height of at 
least 4 metres, such as museums, stadiums, convention centres, airports, metro-transport stations, railway stations, 
or shopping centres. 
(10) 
The weight of a small-area wireless access point and its shape should not impose structural reinforcement of the 
support structure used. 
(11) 
As further development of the relevant standards is foreseen, if they are to cover small-area wireless access points 
employing active antenna systems, such access points should not fall in the scope of the permit-exempt deployment 
regime at this stage. 
(12) 
In order to allow supervision and monitoring by the competent authorities, in particular in cases of multiple co- 
located antenna systems, any operator which has deployed small-area wireless access points in compliance with the 
characteristics laid down in this Regulation, should submit in due time a notification to the competent authority 
concerning the installation and location of those access points. 
(13) 
This Regulation is without prejudice to the powers of the Member States to determine the aggregate levels of EMF 
resulting from the colocation or the aggregation in a local area of small-area wireless access points covered by the 
second subparagraph of Article 57(1) of Directive (EU) 2018/1972, and to ensure their compliance with applicable 
aggregate exposure limits in accordance with Union law by means other than individual permits. 
(14) 
The implementation of this Regulation should be regularly monitored in order to facilitate its review if necessary, 
taking into account national practice and developments in standardisation, in particular with regard to the inclusion 
of active antenna systems. 
(15) 
This Regulation is without prejudice to national measures regarding safety, utility supply and respect of private 
property, including the right of owners to determine the use of their property. 
(16) 
This Regulation is without prejudice to the application of less restrictive regimes at national level for the deployment 
of small-area wireless access points, in order to facilitate commensurate density and low visual impact of small-area 
wireless access deployment. 
(17) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Communications 
Committee, 
(5) Applicable to the frequency range 110 MHz–100 GHz. 
(6) Annex C.4 of EN 62232:2017. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
1.7.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 208/49   
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
This Regulation lays down the physical and technical characteristics of small-area wireless access points referred to in the 
second subparagraph of Article 57(1) of Directive (EU) 2018/1972. 
This Regulation shall not apply to small-area wireless access points with an active antenna system. 
Article 2 
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 
(1) ‘equivalent isotropical radiated power (EIRP)’ means the product of the power supplied to the antenna and the antenna 
gain in a given direction relative to an isotropic antenna; 
(2) ‘antenna system’ means a hardware part of a small-area wireless access point that radiates radio frequency energy for 
the purpose of providing wireless connectivity to end users; 
(3) ‘active antenna system (AAS)’ means an antenna system of a small-area wireless access point, where the amplitude 
and/or phase between antenna elements is continually adjusted resulting in an antenna pattern that varies in response 
to short term changes in the radio environment. This excludes long-term beam shaping such as fixed electrical down 
tilt. In a small-area wireless access point equipped with an AAS, the latter is integrated as part of the small-area 
wireless access point; 
(4) ‘indoor’ means any space, including transportation vehicles, that has a ceiling or roof or any fixed or moveable 
structure or device which is capable of covering all that space, and except for doors, windows and passageways, is 
wholly enclosed by walls or sides, either permanently or temporarily, regardless of the type of material used for the 
roof, wall or sides, and regardless of whether the structure is permanent or temporary; 
(5) ‘outdoor’ means any space which is not indoor. 
Article 3 
1.
Small-area wireless access points referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 57(1) of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 
shall be fully and safely integrated in their supporting structure and therefore invisible to the general public, or meet the 
conditions set out in point A of the Annex to this Regulation, and shall comply with the requirements of the European 
standard laid down in point B of the Annex to this Regulation. 
2.
Paragraph 1 is without prejudice to powers of the Member States to determine the aggregate levels of EMF resulting 
from the colocation or the aggregation in a local area of small-area wireless access points and to ensure compliance with 
applicable aggregate EMF exposure limits in accordance with Union law by means other than individual permits. 
3.
Operators which have deployed small-area wireless access points, which comply with the characteristics laid down in 
paragraph 1, shall notify the competent authorities about the installation and location of those access points. 
Article 4 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
It shall apply from 21 December 2020. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 30 June 2020.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 208/50                                                                                                                                           
1.7.2020   
ANNEX 
A. Conditions referred to in Article 3(1) 
1. The total volume of the visible part of a small-area wireless access point serving one or more spectrum users shall not 
exceed 20 litres. 
2. The total volume of the visible parts of multiple separate small-area wireless access points sharing the same 
infrastructure site of small surface, such as a light pole, a traffic light, a billboard or a bus stop, shall not exceed 20 litres. 
3. In the cases where the antenna system and other elements, such as a radiofrequency unit, a digital processor, a storage 
unit, a cooling system, power supply, cabling connections, backhaul elements or elements for earthing and fixation, of 
the small-area wireless access point are separately installed, any portion thereof in excess of 20 litres shall be made 
invisible. 
4. The small-area wireless access point shall comply with visual characteristics which ensure visual consistency with the 
supporting structure and have a proportionate size relative to the overall size of the supporting structure, coherent 
shape, neutral colours and concealed cables, and shall not, together with other small-area wireless access points that 
are already installed in adjacent sites, create aggregate visual clutter. 
5. The weight of a small-area wireless access point and its shape shall not impose a structural reinforcement of the 
supporting structure. 
B. Requirements of European standard referred to in Article 3(1) 
1. Deployment shall be in accordance with the installation classes E0, E2 and E10 of Table 2 of clause 6.2.4 of the 
European standard EN 62232:2017 ‘Determination of RF field strength, power density and specific absorption rate 
(SAR) in the vicinity of radiocommunication base stations for the purpose of evaluating human exposure’. 
2. A small-area wireless access point of the installation class E10 shall be only deployed outdoors or in indoor spaces with 
a ceiling height of at least 4 m. 
3. In the case of multiple co-located antenna systems (or portions thereof) of one or more small-area wireless access 
points, the criteria for the EIRP contained in the reference in point 1 shall apply to the sum of EIRP of all co-located 
antenna systems (or portions thereof).   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
1.7.2020                                                                                                                                          
L 208/51   
