COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 1337/2013 
of 13 December 2013 
laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council as regards the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for 
fresh, chilled and frozen meat of swine, sheep, goats and poultry 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 
on the provision of food information to consumers, amending 
Regulations (EC) No 1924/2006 and (EC) No 1925/2006 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing 
Commission 
Directive 
87/250/EEC, 
Council 
Directive 
90/496/EEC, Commission Directive 1999/10/EC, Directive 
2000/13/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, 
Commission Directives 2002/67/EC and 2008/5/EC and 
Commission Regulation (EC) No 608/2004 ( 1 ), and in particular 
Article 26(8) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Article 26(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 sets out 
the obligation to indicate the country of origin or place 
of provenance on the label of meat falling within the 
Combined Nomenclature codes listed in Annex XI to 
that Regulation, i.e. fresh, chilled and frozen meat of 
swine, sheep or goats and poultry. 
(2) 
A balance needs to be struck between the need of the 
consumers to be informed and the additional cost for 
operators and national authorities, which finally has an 
impact on the final price of the product. The impact 
assessment 
and 
a 
study 
commissioned 
by 
the 
Commission examined several options for indicating 
the country of origin or place of provenance with 
respect to the most relevant stages of the life of the 
animals. The results show that consumers require 
foremost the information on the place where the 
animal was reared. At the same time, providing 
mandatory information on the place of birth of the 
animal would require the establishment of new tracea­
bility systems at farm level with the respective costs 
stemming therefrom, while labelling the place of 
slaughter can be done at an affordable cost and gives 
valuable information to the consumer. As regards the 
geographical level there is evidence that indication of 
the Member State or third country would be the most 
relevant information for consumers. 
(3) 
Within Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 the concept of 
‘country of origin’ of a food is determined in accordance 
with Articles 23 to 26 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 
2913/92 ( 2 ). For animal products that concept refers to 
the country in which the product is wholly obtained 
which applied to meat means the country in which the 
animal was born, reared and slaughtered. When several 
countries have been involved in the production of a food, 
that concept refers to the country where the products 
have undergone their last substantial and economically 
justified processing or working. However, applying it to 
situations in which the meat comes from animals which 
were born, reared and slaughtered in different countries 
would not sufficiently inform the consumers about the 
origin of that meat. Therefore, in all those situations it is 
necessary to provide for an indication, on the label, of 
the Member State or third country where the animal has 
been reared for a period representing a substantial part of 
the normal cycle of rearing for each species, as well as of 
the Member State or third country where it has been 
slaughtered. The term ‘origin’ should be reserved for 
meat 
obtained 
from 
animals 
born, 
reared 
and 
slaughtered, and therefore wholly obtained, in one 
single Member State or third country. 
(4) 
For the cases in which the animal has been reared in 
several Member States or third countries and the 
rearing period cannot be met, an appropriate indication 
of the place of rearing should be provided for so that the 
consumer needs are better met and unnecessary 
complexity of the label is avoided. 
(5) 
In addition, rules should be laid down for packages 
containing pieces of meat of the same or different 
species obtained from animals reared and slaughtered 
in different Member States or third countries. 
(6) 
This labelling system requires traceability rules at all 
stages of production and distribution of the meat, from 
slaugthering until packaging to ensure the link between 
the labelled meat and the animal or group of animals 
from which that meat has been obtained. 
(7) 
Specific rules should be provided for meat imported from 
third countries where the information required for 
labelling is not available. 
(8) 
As regards minced meat and trimmings, given the char­
acteristics of their production processes, operators should 
be allowed to make use of a simplified system of indi­
cations.
EN 
14.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 335/19 
( 1 ) OJ L 304, 22.11.2011, p. 18. 
( 2 ) Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 of 12 October 1992 estab­
lishing the Community Customs Code (OJ L 302, 19.10.1992, p. 1).
(9) 
In view of the commercial interest of the information to 
be provided under this Regulation, food business 
operators should be given the possibility to add to the 
mandatory indications on the label other elements 
referring to the provenance of the meat. 
(10) 
As the relevant provisions of Regulation (EU) No 
1169/2011 are applicable from 13 December 2014, 
and Article 47 thereof provides for application of the 
implementing rules under that Regulation as from 1 
April in each calendar year, this Regulation should start 
to apply on 1 April 2015. 
(11) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in 
accordance 
with 
the 
opinion 
of 
the 
Standing 
Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Subject matter and scope 
This Regulation lays down rules on the indication of the 
country of origin or place of provenance on the label of 
fresh, chilled and frozen meat of swine, meat of sheep or 
goats and meat of poultry, falling within the respective 
Combined Nomenclature codes listed in Annex XI to Regulation 
(EU) No 1169/2011. 
Article 2 
Definitions 
1. 
For the purposes of this Regulation, the definition of ‘food 
business operator’ in point (3) of Article 3 of Regulation (EC) 
No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Coun­
cil ( 1 ), the definition of ‘establishment’ in point (c) of Article 2(1) 
of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council ( 2 ), as well as the definitions of ‘minced 
meat’, ‘slaughterhouse’ and ‘cutting plant’ laid down respectively 
in points 1.13, 1.16 and 1.17 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 
853/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 3 ) 
shall apply. 
2. 
The following definitions shall also apply: 
(a) ‘trimmings’ means small pieces of meat, falling within the 
Combined Nomenclature codes listed in Annex XI to Regu­
lation (EU) No 1169/2011, recognised as fit for human 
consumption and produced exclusively during trimming 
operations, when boning of carcases or when cutting up 
of meat; 
(b) ‘batch’ means meat, falling within the Combined Nomen­
clature codes listed in Annex XI to Regulation (EU) No 
1169/2011, obtained from a single species, with or 
without bone, whether or not cut or minced, that has 
been cut, minced or packed under practically identical 
conditions. 
Article 3 
Traceability 
1. 
Food business operators, at each stage of production and 
distribution of the meat referred to in Article 1, shall have in 
place and use an identification and registration system. 
2. 
That system shall be applied in such a way as to ensure: 
(a) the link between the meat and the animal or group of 
animals from which it has been obtained, at the slaughter 
stage this link being the responsibility of the slaughterhouse; 
and 
(b) the transmission of the information relating to the indi­
cations referred to in Articles 5, 6 or 7, as appropriate, 
together with the meat, to the operators at the subsequent 
stages of production and distribution. 
Each food business operator shall be responsible for the appli­
cation of the identification and registration system, as laid down 
in the first subparagraph, within the stage of production and 
distribution at which it operates. 
The food business operator who packs or labels the meat in 
accordance with Articles 5, 6 or 7 shall ensure the correlation 
between the batch code identifying the meat supplied to the 
consumer or mass caterer and the relevant batch or batches of 
meat from which the pack or labelled batch is constituted. All 
packs with the same batch code shall correspond to the same 
indications in accordance with Articles 5, 6 or 7. 
3. 
The system referred to in paragraph 1 shall record, in 
particular, the arrival at and the departure from the estab­
lishment of the food business operator, of animals, carcases 
or cuts, as appropriate, and ensure a correlation between 
arrivals and departures. 
Article 4 
Group of animals 
1. 
The size of the group of animals referred to in Article 3 
shall be defined by: 
(a) the number of carcases cut together and constituting one 
batch for the cutting plant concerned in case of cutting of 
carcases;
EN 
L 335/20 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2013 
( 1 ) Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles 
and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety 
Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety (OJ 
L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1). 
( 2 ) Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 29 April 2004 on the hygiene of foodstuffs (OJ 
L 139, 30.4.2004, p. 1). 
( 3 ) Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific hygiene rules for 
food of animal origin (OJ L 139, 30.4.2004, p. 55).
(b) the number of carcases the meat of which constitutes one 
batch for the cutting or mincing plant concerned in case of 
further cutting or mincing. 
2. 
The size of a batch shall not exceed the production of one 
day in a single establishment. 
3. 
Except the case where Article 7 is applied, when consti­
tuting the batches, the establishments in which meat is cut or 
minced shall ensure that all carcasses in a batch correspond to 
animals to the meat of which identical labelling indications 
apply in accordance with Article 5(1) or with Article 5(2). 
Article 5 
Labelling of meat 
1. 
The label of meat referred to in Article 1 intended for 
supplying to the final consumer or to mass caterers shall 
contain the following indications: 
(a) the Member State or third country in which the rearing 
took place indicated as ‘Reared in: (name of the Member 
State or third country)’, in accordance with the following 
criteria: 
(i) for swine: 
— in case the animal is slaughtered older than 6 
months, the Member State or third country in 
which the last rearing period of at least 4 months 
took place, 
— in case the animal is slaughtered younger than 6 
months and with a live weight of at least 80 kilo­
grams, the Member State or third country in which 
the rearing period after the animal has reached 30 
kilograms took place, 
— in case the animal is slaughtered younger than 6 
months and with a live weight of less than 80 kilo­
grams, the Member State or third country in which 
the whole rearing period took place; 
(ii) for sheep and goats: the Member State or third country 
in which the last rearing period of at least 6 months 
took place or, in case the animal is slaughtered younger 
than 6 months, the Member State or third country in 
which the whole rearing period took place, 
(iii) for poultry: the Member State or third country in which 
the last rearing period of at least one month took place 
or, in case the animal is slaughtered younger than one 
month, the Member State or third country in which the 
whole rearing period after the animal was placed for 
fattening took place; 
(b) the Member State or third country in which the slaughter 
took place indicated as ‘Slaughtered in: (name of the 
Member State or third country)’; and 
(c) the batch code identifying the meat supplied to the 
consumer or mass caterer. 
Where the rearing period referred to in point (a) is not attained 
in any of the Members States or third countries where the 
animal was reared, the indication referred to in point (a) shall 
be replaced by ‘Reared in: several Member States of the EU’ or, 
where the meat or the animals have been imported into the 
Union, by ‘Reared in: several non-EU countries’ or ‘Reared in: 
several EU and non-EU countries’. 
However, where the rearing period referred to in point (a) is not 
attained in any of the Member States or third countries where 
the animal was reared, the indication referred to in point (a) 
may be replaced by ‘Reared in: (list of the Member States or 
third countries where the animal was reared)’ if the food 
business operator proves to the satisfaction of the competent 
authority that the animal was reared in those Member States or 
third countries. 
2. 
The indications referred to in points (a) and (b) of 
paragraph 1 may be replaced by the indication ‘Origin: (name 
of Member State or third country)’ if the food business operator 
proves to the satisfaction of the competent authority that the 
meat referred to in Article 1 has been obtained from animals 
born, reared and slaughtered in one single Member State or 
third country. 
3. 
Where several pieces of meat, of the same or of different 
species, correspond to different labelling indications in 
accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 and are presented in the 
same pack to the consumer or mass caterer, the label shall 
indicate: 
(a) the list of the relevant Member States or third countries in 
accordance with paragraphs 1 or 2, for each species; 
(b) the batch code identifying the meat supplied to the 
consumer or mass caterer. 
Article 6 
Derogation for meat from third countries 
By way of derogation from point (a) of Article 5(1), the label of 
meat referred to in Article 1 imported for placing on the Union 
market, and for which the information provided for in point (a) 
of Article 5(1) is not available, shall contain the indication 
‘Reared in: non-EU’ and ‘Slaughtered in: (Name of the third 
country where the animal was slaughtered)’. 
Article 7 
Derogations for minced meat and trimmings 
By way of derogation from points (a) and (b) of Article 5(1), 
from Article 5(2) and from Article 6, as regards minced meat 
and trimmings, the following indications may be applied: 
(a) ‘Origin: EU’, where minced meat or trimmings are produced 
exclusively from meat obtained from animals born, reared 
and slaughtered in different Member States;
EN 
14.12.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 335/21
(b) ‘Reared and slaughtered in: EU’, where minced meat or 
trimmings are produced exclusively from meat obtained 
from animals reared and slaughtered in different Member 
States; 
(c) ‘Reared and slaughtered in: non-EU’, where minced meat or 
trimmings are produced exclusively from meat imported 
into the Union; 
(d) ‘Reared in: non-EU’ and ‘Slaughtered in: EU’ where minced 
meat or trimmings are produced exclusively from meat 
obtained from animals imported into the Union as 
animals for slaughter and slaughtered in one or different 
Member States; 
(e) ‘Reared and slaughtered in: EU and non-EU’ where minced 
meat or trimmings are produced from: 
(i) meat obtained from animals reared and slaughtered in 
one or different Member States and from meat imported 
into the Union; or 
(ii) meat obtained from animals imported into the Union 
and slaughtered in one or different Member States. 
Article 8 
Additional voluntary information on the label 
Food business operators may supplement the indications 
referred to in Articles 5, 6 or 7 with additional information 
concerning the provenance of the meat. 
The additional information referred to in the first paragraph 
shall not be contradictory to the indications referred to in 
Articles 5, 6 or 7, and shall comply with the rules of Chapter 
V of Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011. 
Article 9 
Entry into force and application 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following 
that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
It shall apply from 1 April 2015. It shall not apply to meat 
which has been lawfully placed on the Union market before 
1 April 2015 until the stocks are exhausted. 
It shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all 
Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 13 December 2013. 
For the Commission 
The President 
José Manuel BARROSO
EN 
L 335/22 
Official Journal of the European Union 
14.12.2013
