II 
(Non-legislative acts) 
REGULATIONS 
COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) 2018/781 
of 29 May 2018 
amending Regulation (EC) No 847/2000 as regards the definition of the concept ‘similar medicinal 
product’ 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1999 
on orphan medicinal products (1), and in particular Article 8(4) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1)  
Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 was adopted to promote research in the field of rare diseases. It offers 
undertakings that develop orphan medicinal products the prospect of obtaining market exclusivity for a certain 
number of years. 
(2)  
Commission Regulation (EC) No 847/2000 (2) provides a definition of the concept ‘similar medicinal product’, 
which includes specific cases defining what kind of products are to be regarded as similar for the purposes of the 
application of Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000. That definition should be updated in the light of new 
scientific and technical knowledge, in particular, due to major developments in the field of biological medicines, 
and especially advanced therapy medicinal products, and in the light of experience gained with regard to the 
designation and regulation of orphan medicinal products. 
(3)  
In addition, there is a need for a clear definition of the concept ‘principal molecular structural features’, which is 
used within the definition of the concept ‘similar active substance’, which is in turn used within the definition of 
the concept ‘similar medicinal product’. As regards the biological medicinal products, the definition of ‘principal 
molecular structural features’ shall capture certain molecular modifications significantly contributing to the 
functional characteristics of the active substance that would impact whether or not the products are considered 
as similar. However, for advanced therapy medicinal products the principal molecular structural features cannot 
be fully identified. Therefore, in the case of advanced therapy medicinal products the similarity between two 
active substances should be assessed on the basis of the biological and functional characteristics. 
(4)  
The definition of ‘active substance’ should be deleted as Article 8(4) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 does not 
empower the Commission to define the term ‘active substance’. The term ‘active substance’ is legally defined in 
Article 1(3)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) and the scope and 
purpose of Article 3(3) of Regulation (EC) No 847/2000 are related to the definitions of the concepts ‘similar 
medicinal product’ and ‘clinical superiority’. 
30.5.2018 
L 132/1 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) OJ L 18, 22.1.2000, p. 1. 
(2) Commission Regulation (EC) No 847/2000 of 27 April 2000 laying down the provisions for implementation of the criteria for 
designation of a medicinal product as an orphan medicinal product and definitions of the concepts ‘similar medicinal product’ and 
‘clinical superiority’ (OJ L 103, 28.4.2000, p. 5). 
(3) Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to 
medicinal products for human use (OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67). 
(5)  
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on 
Medicinal Products for Human Use, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
In Article 3(3) of Regulation (EC) No 847/2000, the introductory sentence and points (a), (b) and (c) are replaced by the 
following: 
‘For the purposes of the application of Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products, 
the following definitions shall apply: 
(a)  deleted; 
(b)  “similar medicinal product” means a medicinal product containing a similar active substance or substances as 
contained in a currently authorised orphan medicinal product, and which is intended for the same therapeutic 
indication; 
(c)  “similar active substance” means an identical active substance, or an active substance with the same principal 
molecular structural features (but not necessarily all of the same molecular structural features) and which acts 
via the same mechanism. However, in the case of advanced therapy medicinal products, for which the principal 
molecular structural features cannot be fully defined, the similarity between two active substances shall be 
assessed on the basis of the biological and functional characteristics. 
For the purpose of application of point (c) above, the following applies for:  
(1) Chemical medicinal products 
The principal molecular structural features are the relevant structural components of an active substance. 
They can be the whole or part of the molecule. Whether the principal molecular structural features are the 
same between two or more molecules will be identified by comparison of their structures. 
(1.1)  Isomers, mixture of isomers, complexes, esters, ethers, salts, and derivatives of the original active 
substance, or an active substance that differs from the original active substance only with respect to 
minor changes in the molecular structure, such as a structural analogue, shall be considered similar. 
(1.2)  Synthetic polynucleotide substances, single or double stranded, consisting of two or more distinct 
nucleotides where: 
—  the difference in the nucleotide sequence of the purine and pyrimidine bases or their derivatives is 
not major, shall be considered similar. Therefore for antisense or interfering nucleotide substances, 
addition, substitution or deletion of a nucleotide not significantly affecting the kinetics of hybridi­
sation to the target shall normally be considered similar, 
—  the difference in structure related to modifications of the ribose or deoxyribose backbone sugars 
or to the replacement of the backbone sugars by synthetic analogues shall normally result in 
substances being considered similar. For antisense or interfering nucleotide substances, changes in 
the (deoxy-)ribose not significantly affecting the kinetics of hybridisation to the target would 
normally be considered similar.  
(2) Biological medicinal products (other than advanced therapy medicinal products) 
The principal molecular structural features are the structural components of an active substance that are 
relevant for the functional characteristics of that substance. The principal molecular structural features may 
be composed of a therapeutic moiety or a therapeutic moiety in combination with an additional structural 
element(s) significantly contributing to the functional characteristics of the active substance. 
Such an additional structural element(s) can be conjugated, fused or linked by other means to the therapeutic 
moiety or can be an extension of the therapeutic moiety protein backbone by additional amino 
acids. Substances with structural elements for which similar methods of modification or conjugation 
technology are used shall normally result in similar substances. 
Biological active substances that differ from the original biological substance only with respect to minor 
changes in the molecular structure shall be considered similar. 
30.5.2018 
L 132/2 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(2.1)  Proteinaceous substances: 
If the difference in structure between them is due to post-translational events (such as different 
glycosylation patterns) substances shall normally be considered similar. However, exceptionally some 
post-translational modifications may result in a non-similar substance, if there is significant effect on 
the functional characteristics of the substance. 
If the difference in the amino acid sequence is not major, substances shall normally be considered 
similar. Therefore, two pharmacologically related protein substances of the same group (for example, 
having differences related to e.g. N-terminal methionine, naturally extracted versus rDNA-derived 
proteins or other minor variants) shall normally be considered similar. However, the addition of 
a structural element may result in substances being considered non-similar if this significantly affects 
the functional characteristics of the substance. 
Monoclonal antibodies binding to the same target epitope shall normally be considered similar. 
However, two monoclonal antibody conjugates or fusion proteins could be determined to be non- 
similar if either the Complementary Determining Region sequences of the antibody or the additional 
structural element of the conjugated monoclonal antibody were different. 
(2.2)  Polysaccharide substances: 
If the substances have identical saccharide repeating units, even if the number of units varies, they 
shall normally be considered similar. 
A conjugated polysaccharide vaccine compared to a non-conjugated polysaccharide vaccine 
containing the same antigen is considered a non-similar substance.  
(3) Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs) 
(3.1)  Cell-based ATMPs: Two related cell-based medicinal products are not similar if: 
—  there are differences in starting materials or the final composition of the product which have 
significant impact on the biological characteristics and/or biological activity relevant for the 
intended therapeutic effect and/or safety attributes of the product. The different source of the 
starting materials (e.g. as in the case of autologous ATMPs) is not sufficient to support a claim 
that two products are non-similar, or 
—  there are differences in the manufacturing technology having a significant impact on the biological 
characteristics and/or biological activity relevant for the intended therapeutic effect and/or safety 
attributes of the product. 
(3.2)  Gene therapy medicinal products: Two gene therapy medicinal products shall not be considered 
similar when there are differences in the therapeutic sequence, viral vector, transfer system, regulatory 
sequences or manufacturing technology that significantly affect the biological characteristics and/or 
biological activity relevant for the intended therapeutic effect and/or safety attributes of the product. 
Differences in the therapeutic sequence without a significant impact on the intended therapeutic effect 
are not sufficient to support the claim that two gene therapy medicinal products are non-similar. 
(3.3)  Genetically modified cells. The considerations under (3.1) and (3.2) apply.  
(4) Radiopharmaceutical medicinal products 
The same radiopharmaceutical active substance, or one differing from the original in radionuclide, ligand, 
site of labelling or molecule-radionuclide coupling mechanism linking the molecule and radionuclide 
provided that it acts via the same mechanism shall be considered similar substances.’ 
Article 2 
Entry into force and application 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
30.5.2018 
L 132/3 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 29 May 2018. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Jean-Claude JUNCKER  
30.5.2018 
L 132/4 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
