REGULATION (EU) No 257/2014 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 26 February 2014 
amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 as regards the inclusion of Greenland in 
implementing the Kimberley Process certification scheme 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE 
EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, and in particular Article 207 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, 
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national 
parliaments, 
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure ( 1 ), 
Whereas: 
(1) 
Council Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 ( 2 ) sets up a 
Community System of certification and import and 
export controls for rough diamonds for the purposes 
of implementing the Kimberley Process certification 
scheme. 
(2) 
Greenland is not part of the Union territory but it is 
included in the list of overseas countries and territories 
set out in Annex II to the Treaty on the Functioning of 
the European Union (TFEU). In accordance with 
Article 198 TFEU, the purpose of the association of 
the overseas countries and territories with the Union is 
to promote the economic and social development of the 
overseas countries and territories and to establish close 
economic relations between them and the Union as a 
whole. 
(3) 
Council Decision 2014/136/EU ( 3 ) sets out the rules and 
procedures enabling Greenland’s participation in the 
Kimberley 
Process 
certification 
scheme 
on 
rough 
diamonds through its cooperation with the Union. 
Such cooperation would strengthen economic relations 
between the Union and Greenland in the diamond 
industry, and in particular it would enable Greenland 
to export rough diamonds accompanied by the EU 
Certificate issued for the purposes of the certification 
scheme, with a view to promoting the economic devel­
opment of Greenland. 
(4) 
Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 should be amended in 
order to enable Decision 2014/136/EU to enter into 
force and in particular to provide for the inclusion of 
Greenland in the certification scheme. 
(5) 
Accordingly, Greenland will be prohibited from accepting 
imports or exports of rough diamonds to or from a 
participant other than the Union without a valid 
certificate. The amendments contained in this Regulation 
will allow for the export of rough diamonds from 
Greenland to third countries as long as they are accom­
panied by the EU Certificate. 
(6) 
In addition to the existing condition for certification 
requiring evidence that the rough diamonds were 
lawfully imported into the Union, an alternative 
condition should be introduced for diamonds mined 
and extracted in Greenland that have never been 
exported before, in particular to provide evidence in 
this regard. 
(7) 
In addition, amendments should be made to the detailed 
arrangements for submitting rough diamonds to Union 
authorities for verification, extending to Greenland the 
special rules for transit, enabling Greenland’s partici­
pation in the Committee for the implementation of 
Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 and providing for Green­
land’s representation in the Kimberley Process and 
cooperation with other Member States through the 
Commission. 
(8) 
Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 should therefore be 
amended accordingly,
EN 
20.3.2014 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 84/69 
( 1 ) Position of the European Parliament of 4 February 2014 (not yet 
published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of 
20 February 2014. 
( 2 ) Council Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 of 20 December 2002 
implementing the Kimberley Process certification scheme for the 
international trade in rough diamonds (OJ L 358, 31.12.2002, 
p. 28). 
( 3 ) Council Decision 2014/136/EU of 20 February 2014 laying down 
rules and procedures to enable the participation of Greenland in the 
Kimberley Process certification scheme (See page 99 of this Official 
Journal).
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 is amended as follows: 
(1) Article 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 1 
This Regulation sets up a Union system of certification and 
import and export controls for rough diamonds for the 
purposes of implementing the Kimberley Process certifi­
cation scheme. 
For the purposes of the certification scheme, the territory of 
the Union and that of Greenland shall be considered as one 
entity without internal borders. 
This Regulation does not prejudice or substitute any 
provisions in force relating to customs formalities and 
controls.’; 
(2) in Article 3, the introductory phrase is replaced by the 
following: 
‘The import of rough diamonds into the Community (*) 
territory or Greenland shall be prohibited unless all of the 
following conditions are fulfilled: 
___________ 
(*) With effect from 1 December 2009 the Treaty on the 
Functioning of the European Union introduced certain 
changes in terminology, such as the replacement of 
“Community” by “Union”.’; 
(3) in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
Containers and the corresponding certificates shall 
without delay be submitted for verification together, to a 
Community authority either in the Member State where 
they are imported or in the Member State for which they 
are destined, as indicated in accompanying documents. 
Containers destined for Greenland shall be submitted for 
verification to one of the Community authorities, either in 
the Member State where they are imported, or in one of the 
other Member States where a Community authority is estab­
lished.’; 
(4) in Article 8, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 
‘1. 
The Commission shall consult participants on the 
practical arrangements 
for 
providing 
the 
competent 
authority of the exporting participant that has validated a 
certificate 
with 
confirmation 
of 
imports 
into 
the 
Community territory or Greenland.’; 
(5) in Article 11, the introductory phrase is replaced by the 
following: 
‘The export from the Community territory or Greenland of 
rough diamonds shall be prohibited unless both of the 
following conditions are fulfilled:’; 
(6) in Article 12(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: 
‘(a) the exporter has provided conclusive evidence that: 
(i) the rough diamonds for which a certificate is being 
requested were lawfully imported in accordance with 
Article 3; or 
(ii) the rough diamonds for which a certificate is being 
requested were mined or extracted in Greenland in 
case the rough diamonds have not been previously 
exported to a participant other than the Union.’; 
(7) Article 18 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 18 
Articles 4, 11, 12, and 14 shall not apply to rough 
diamonds which enter the Community territory or 
Greenland solely for the purposes of transit to a participant 
outside those territories, on condition that neither the 
original container in which rough diamonds are being trans­
ported nor the original accompanying certificate issued by a 
competent authority of a participant has been tampered 
with at entry into or exit from the Community territory 
or Greenland, and the transit purpose is clearly attested 
by the accompanying certificate.’; 
(8) Article 21 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 21 
1. 
The Union, including Greenland, shall be a participant 
in the KP certification scheme. 
2. 
The Commission, which represents the Union, 
including Greenland, in the KP certification scheme, shall 
aim to ensure optimal implementation of the KP certifi­
cation scheme, in particular through cooperation with 
participants. To this end, the Commission shall, in 
particular, exchange information with participants on inter­
national trade in rough diamonds and, where appropriate, 
cooperate in monitoring activities and in the settlement of 
any disputes that may arise.’; 
(9) Article 23 is replaced by the following: 
‘Article 23 
The Committee referred to in Article 22 may examine any 
question concerning the application of this Regulation. Such 
questions may be raised either by the chairman or by a 
representative of a Member State or Greenland.’.
EN 
L 84/70 
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.3.2014
Article 2 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official 
Journal of the European Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Strasbourg, 26 February 2014. 
For the European Parliament 
The President 
M. SCHULZ 
For the Council 
The President 
D. KOURKOULAS
EN 
20.3.2014 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 84/71
