 
II 
(Non-legislative acts) 
REGULATIONS 
COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/1336 
of 25 September 2020 
imposing definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of certain polyvinyl alcohols originating in the 
People’s Republic of China 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on 
protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union ( 1 ) (‘the basic Regulation’), 
and in particular Article 9(4) thereof, 
After consulting the Member States, 
Whereas: 
1. PROCEDURE 
1.1. Initiation 
(1) 
On 30 July 2019, the European Commission (‘the Commission’) initiated an anti-dumping investigation with 
regard to imports into the Union of certain polyvinyl alcohols (‘PVA’) originating in the People’s Republic of 
China (‘PRC’ or ‘the country concerned’) on the basis of Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036. It published a 
Notice of Initiation in the Official Journal of the European Union ( 2 ) (‘the Notice of Initiation’). 
(2) 
The Commission initiated the investigation following a complaint lodged on 19 June 2019 by Kuraray Europe 
GmbH (‘the complainant’) on behalf of producers representing more than 60 % of the total Union production of 
PVA. The complaint contained evidence of dumping and of resulting material injury that was sufficient to justify 
the initiation of the investigation. 
1.2. Interested parties 
(3) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission invited interested parties to contact it in order to participate in the 
investigation. In addition, the Commission specifically informed the complainant, other known Union producers, 
the known exporting producers and the authorities of the PRC, the known importers and users about the initiation 
of the investigation and invited them to participate. 
(4) 
Interested parties had an opportunity to comment on the initiation of the investigation and to request a hearing 
with the Commission and/or the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings. All interested parties who so requested were 
granted a hearing. 
1.3. Comments on initiation 
(5) 
After the initiation, several users of the product concerned argued that the non-confidential summary of the 
information provided in the open version of the complaint was not sufficiently detailed or was incomplete, thus 
did not allow for a reasonable understanding of the substance of the confidential information.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/1 
( 1 ) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21. 
( 2 ) OJ C 256/03, 30.7.2019, p. 4.
 
(6) 
The Commission considered that the non-confidential version of the complaint open for inspection by interested 
parties contained all the essential evidence and non-confidential summaries of data provided under confidential 
cover in order for interested parties to exercise their rights of defence throughout the proceedings. 
(7) 
Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6(5) of the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade allow for the safeguarding of confidential information in circumstances 
where its disclosure would be of significant competitive advantage to a competitor or would have a significantly 
adverse effect upon a person supplying the information or upon a person from whom that person has acquired the 
information. 
(8) 
The information provided confidential treatment falls under these categories. In any event, the complainant 
provided summaries of the contents of the confidential segments of the complaint and the relevant bracketing 
of numerical data. The Commission verified these documents before initiation. It concluded that they satisfied the 
provisions of Article 19 and allowed for a reasonable understanding of the substance of the confidential 
information. 
(9) 
The claim was therefore dismissed. 
(10) 
One interested party claimed that the complaint is part of a strategy of the complainant to enhance its monopoly 
on the Union market, by deliberately reducing sales volume and increasing prices. 
(11) 
The information collected during the investigation showed no evidence of any anti-competitive practices carried 
out by the Union industry. On the contrary specific evidence, such as commercial offers and email exchanges, that 
the industry is capable and willing to supply any user of the product concerned was collected. 
(12) 
The complainant itself had [25 % – 30 %] market share of the Union free market during the investigation period, 
far below the share to allow it to exercise dominance of any kind. 
(13) 
Concerning the alleged strategy to reduce volumes and increase prices, the investigation showed that the 
complainant initially attempted to improve its economies of scale, increasing production output and investments 
in order to reduce its unit costs of production. Moreover it tried to follow Chinese dumped prices with price 
suppression of its own in order to maintain market share. This strategy did indeed allow the complainant to 
maintain market share but pushed it into significant losses. As explained below in recital (528), the complainant 
was thus forced to abandon its attempts to maintain market share against imports from the PRC, and consequently 
concentrated its sales on more expensive grades where profitable sales could still be achieved albeit with a 
corresponding significant loss of market share. 
(14) 
Therefore this claim was rejected. 
(15) 
After the initiation, a Union producer, Wacker Chemie AG, claimed that the estimation of the Chinese overcapacity 
in the complaint was inaccurate and presented its own estimation. 
(16) 
The estimation of the Chinese overcapacity in the complaint was based on an objective and established source, IHS 
Chemical Economics handbook. Whilst different estimations of the supply and demand on the Chinese market 
may justifiably exist, the Commission considered that the estimation in the complaint met the criteria of sufficient 
accuracy and reliability required for prima facie evidence. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(17) 
Wacker Chemie AG also submitted comments as regards the methodology for calculating the dumping margins 
pursuant to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, notably arguing that the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation would be WTO-inconsistent and that there was absence of evidence of cost distortion. The issues 
related to the existence of significant distortions and application of the Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation are 
discussed in the section 3.1.1 below. 
(18) 
After the initiation, Wacker Chemie AG also claimed that the complainant’s estimation of the dumping margin and 
the normal value was incorrect because Chinese producers were vertically integrated and did not buy vinyl acetate 
monomer (VAM) for their production.
EN 
L 315/2 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(19) 
The complaint indicated distortions for a number of raw materials that can be used for production of the VAM, 
depending on the production method. These same raw materials are also used in case the producers are vertically 
integrated and do not purchase VAM from other companies, and therefore, the distortions of these raw materials 
were relevant for the calculation of the normal value. It should also be noted that the normal value calculation in 
the complaint is sufficient evidence of dumping and that the investigation established the normal value based on 
the verified data of the cooperating Chinese exporting producers. Therefore this claim was dismissed. 
(20) 
At initiation Wacker and Carbochem claimed that the Commission used a PCN system that did not properly 
ensure price comparability. The argument was reiterated after disclosure by Wacker, Carbochem, Gamma Chimica, 
FAR Polymer and Ahlstrom-Munksjö. 
(21) 
Wacker claimed that the PCN had too wide ranges of viscosity, hydrolysis and methanol contents and did not take 
into account the particle size and the pH value. Carbochem, Gamma Chimica and FAR Polymer argued that the 
molecular weight was not taken into account by the PCN, while Ahlstrom-Munksjö argued that the ash content 
range was too wide. 
(22) 
The Commission disagreed that there is an issue with the PCN structure. The PCNs contained the basic and 
essential properties of the product concerned, universally defined by the core elements therein included in the PCN 
(i.e. viscosity, hydrolysis, ash and methanol content). These parameters are essential for all PVA grades and 
considered industrial standards for all applications of the product concerned. Thus, while it may be true that 
certain characteristics not present in the PCN could be relevant for certain applications, these are user (and not 
product) specific. 
(23) 
The argument was therefore rejected. 
1.4. Sampling 
(24) 
In its Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it might sample the interested parties in accordance with 
Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
1.4.1. Sampling of Union producers 
(25) 
In its Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it had provisionally selected a sample of Union producers. 
The Commission selected the sample on the basis of the reported production volume of the like product in the 
Union. This sample consisted of 3 Union producers. The sampled Union producers accounted for more than 90 % 
of the estimated total EU production of the like product. The Commission invited interested parties to comment 
on the provisional sample. 
(26) 
One party expressed reservations about the inclusion in the sample of a producer, Wacker Chemie AG, which 
manufactures the product concerned exclusively for its captive use. In its opinion, the inclusion of Wacker in the 
sample, with no sales in the free market, could have potentially distorted the injury analysis. 
(27) 
The Commission also took note of the situation of one of the sampled companies. However, it must be noted that 
the entire Union industry, including the three Union producers initially sampled, produce the product concerned 
for captive consumption as well. Therefore, it was considered that the inclusion of Wacker Chemie AG in the 
sample did not distort the injury analysis, and allowed the Commission to analyse thoroughly the situation also of 
the captive market of PVA in the Union. Therefore, the sample was considered representative of the Union 
industry. 
(28) 
In order to have a complete assessment of the facts of the case, the Commission considered the interest of the 
Union producers Wacker and Solutia also as users of the product under investigation. 
(29) 
Later in the proceeding, one of the three sampled producers, Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe S.L., informed the 
Commission that it could not cooperate in full as a sampled producer. In fact, its reply to the questionnaire only 
included information with respect to macro-indicators, which was insufficient for the purposes of the investigation. 
Hence, the Commission decided to revise the sample of Union producers by removing Sekisui Specialty Chemicals 
Europe S.L. 
(30) 
The amended sample, composed of two union producers, represents more than 80 % of the estimated total EU 
production of the like product. The sample is representative of the Union industry.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/3
 
1.4.2. Sampling of importers 
(31) 
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked unrelated 
importers to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. 
(32) 
Six unrelated importers provided the requested information and agreed to be included in the sample. In accordance 
with Article 17(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission selected a sample of three unrelated importers on the 
basis of the largest volume of imports into the Union. In accordance with Article 17(2) of the basic Regulation, all 
known importers concerned were consulted on the selection of the sample. No comments were made. 
1.4.3. Sampling of exporting producers in the PRC 
(33) 
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked all exporting 
producers in the PRC to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. In addition, the Commission 
asked the Mission of the People’s Republic of China to the European Union to identify and/or contact other 
exporting producers, if any, that could be interested in participating in the investigation. 
(34) 
Four exporting producers in the country concerned provided the requested information and agreed to be included 
in the sample. In accordance with Article 17(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission selected a sample of three, 
on the basis of the largest representative volume of exports to the Union which could reasonably be investigated 
within the time available. In accordance with Article 17(2) of the basic Regulation, all interested parties, and the 
authorities of the country concerned, were consulted on the selection of the sample. No comments were received. 
1.5. Individual examination 
(35) 
Originally, all four groups of exporting producers that returned the sampling form requested individual exam­
ination under Article 17(3) of the basic Regulation. On the day of the initiation, the Commission made the 
questionnaire for exporting producers available on its website. Moreover, when announcing the sample, the 
Commission informed the exporting producer that was not sampled that it was required to provide a full 
questionnaire reply if it wished to be examined individually. The exporting producer did not provide a ques­
tionnaire reply. In the absence of a reply, the exporting producer did not comply with the requirements and, 
therefore, individual examination could not be granted. 
1.6. Questionnaire replies and verification visits 
(36) 
The Commission sent a questionnaire concerning the existence of significant distortions in the PRC within the 
meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation to the Government of the People’s Republic of China (‘GOC’). 
The questionnaires for the Union producers, importers, users, and exporting producers were made available online 
on the day of initiation. 
(37) 
Questionnaire replies were received from the two sampled Union producers and the three sampled exporting 
producers. As mentioned in recital (29) above, an incomplete questionnaire reply was received also by another 
Union producer, which was for this reason excluded from the sample. Nine users and three unrelated importers 
provided the Commission with a questionnaire reply. No reply was received from the GOC. 
(38) 
The Commission sought and verified all the information deemed necessary for a determination of dumping, 
resulting injury and Union interest. Verification visits pursuant to Article 16 of the basic Regulation were 
carried out at the premises of the following companies: 
Union producers: 
— Kuraray Europe GmbH, Germany (‘KEG’); 
— Wacker Chemie AG, Germany (‘Wacker’); 
Unrelated Importers: 
— Carbochem Srl, Italy (‘Carbochem’); 
— Omya Hamburg GmbH, Germany (‘Omya’); 
— Wegochem Europe B.V., Netherlands (‘Wegochem’); 
Users: 
— Cordial B.V., Netherlands (‘Cordial’);
EN 
L 315/4 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
— Solutia Europe SPRL/BVBA, Belgium (‘Solutia’); 
— Wacker Chemie AG, Germany (‘Wacker’); 
Exporting producers and their related companies in the People’s Republic of China: 
Shuangxin: 
— Inner Mongolia Environment-Friendly Material Co., Ltd (‘Shuangxin’); 
Sinopec Group: 
— Central-China Company, Sinopec Chemical Commercial Holding Co., Ltd (‘Sinopec Central China’); 
— Sinopec Chongqing SVW Chemical Co., Ltd (‘Sinopec Chongqing’); 
— Sinopec Great Wall Energy & Chemical (Ningxia) Co., Ltd (‘Sinopec Ningxia’); 
— Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Co., Ltd; 
Wan Wei Group:: 
— Anhui Wan Wei Updated High-Tech Material Industry Co., Ltd (‘Wan Wei’); 
— Inner Mongolia Mengwei Technology Co., Ltd (‘Mengwei’). 
1.7. Investigation period and period considered 
(39) 
The investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (‘the investigation 
period’ or ‘IP’). The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of injury covered the period from 1 January 
2016 to the end of the investigation period (‘the period considered’). 
1.8. Procedure for the determination of the normal value under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation 
(40) 
In view of the sufficient evidence available at the initiation of the investigation pointing to the existence of 
significant distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission 
considered it appropriate to initiate the investigation having regard to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(41) 
Consequently, in order to collect the necessary data for the eventual application of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation, in the Notice of Initiation, the Commission invited all exporting producers in the country concerned to 
provide the information requested in Annex III to the Notice of the Initiation regarding the inputs used for 
producing PVA. Four exporting producers submitted the relevant information. 
(42) 
In order to obtain information it deemed necessary for its investigation with regard to the alleged significant 
distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission also sent a 
questionnaire to the GOC. No reply was received from the GOC. Subsequently, the Commission informed the 
GOC that it would use facts available within the meaning of Article 18 of the basic Regulation for the deter­
mination of the existence of the significant distortions in the PRC. 
(43) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission also invited all interested parties to make their views known, submit 
information and provide supporting evidence regarding the appropriateness of the application of Article 2(6a) of 
the basic Regulation within 37 days of the date of publication of this Notice in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
(44) 
After the initiation, three Chinese exporting producers submitted comments as regards the methodology for 
calculating the dumping margins pursuant to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, notably arguing that the 
Commission has not proved that the alleged governmental intervention has demonstrably led to the price 
distortions of inputs. The issues related to the existence of significant distortions are discussed in the 
section 3.1.1 below. 
(45) 
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission also specified that, in view of the evidence available, it may need to 
select an appropriate representative country pursuant to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation for the purpose of 
determining the normal value based on undistorted prices or benchmarks.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/5
 
(46) 
On 2 October 2019, the Commission published a first note for the file (‘the Note of 2 October 2019’) ( 3 ) seeking 
the views of the interested parties on the relevant sources that the Commission may use for the determination of 
the normal value, in accordance with Article 2(6a)(e) second ident of the basic Regulation. In that note, the 
Commission provided a list of all factors of production such as materials, energy and labour used in the 
production of the product concerned by the exporting producers. In addition, based on the criteria guiding the 
choice of undistorted prices or benchmarks, the Commission identified possible representative countries (namely 
Brazil, Malaysia, Mexico and Thailand). 
(47) 
The Commission gave all interested parties the opportunity to comment. The Commission received comments 
from three exporting producers, one importer and user and the complainant. The GOC did not provide any 
comments. 
(48) 
The Commission addressed the comments received on the Note of 2 October 2019 in the second note on the 
sources for the determination of the normal value of 20 December 2019 (‘the Note of 20 December 2019’) ( 4 ). The 
Commission also provided the revised list of factors of production. Based on the comments received the 
Commission added also Turkey to the list of possible representative countries and, after further research, 
concluded that, at that stage, Turkey was considered an appropriate representative country under Article 2(6a)(a), 
first indent of the basic Regulation. The Commission also determined the list of codes used by Turkey and made 
available the relevant Turkish customs statistics in the open file. 
(49) 
The Commission invited interested parties to comment. The Commission received comments from one exporting 
producer, three traders of the product under investigation in the Union and the complainant. 
(50) 
The Commission addressed the comments received following the Note of 20 December 2019 in the third note on 
the sources for the determination of normal value of 30 March 2020 (‘the Note of 30 March 2020’) ( 5 ). In that 
note the Commission also further clarified some of the sources for the determination of the normal value and 
invited the interested parties to comment. Following the Note of 30 March 2020, the Commission received 
comments only from three traders of the product under investigation in the Union. This Regulation addresses 
those comments in recitals (219), (220), (264), (342) and (343). 
1.9. Non-imposition of provisional measures and subsequent procedure 
(51) 
On 9 March 2020, in accordance with Article 19a(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission informed the 
interested parties of its intention not to impose provisional measures and to continue the investigation. 
(52) 
Since no provisional measures were imposed, no registration of imports was performed. 
2. PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT 
2.1. Product concerned 
(53) 
The product concerned ( 6 ) is certain polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), whether or not containing un-hydrolysed acetate 
groups, in the form of homopolymer resins with a viscosity (measured in 4 % aqueous solution at 20 °C) of 
3 mPa·s or more but not more than 61 mPa·s and a degree of hydrolysis of 80,0 mol % or more but not more 
than 99,9 mol %, both measured according to the ISO 15023-2 method, originating in the People’s Republic of 
China (PRC) (‘the product concerned’). 
(54) 
During the investigation it became apparent that the product description, in particular regarding the measurement 
method of viscosity and degree of hydrolysis, was not sufficiently precise and could lead to misinterpretation 
and/or misclassification by national customs authorities. Furthermore, there was a risk that economic operators had 
misinterpreted that description and, on that basis, may have decided not to come forward as interested parties. For 
that reason, the Commission clarified the wording of the product scope description included in the Notice of 
initiation by publishing a Notice on 7 November 2019 (‘Clarification Notice’) ( 7 ). The Clarification Notice also gave 
the possibility for parties to come forward within a prescribed time limit to make themselves known and to 
request a questionnaire, if they wished so. One user of the product concerned, Henkel AG & Co., came forward 
asking to be regarded as interested party in the proceeding. No interested parties requested a questionnaire.
EN 
L 315/6 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 3 ) No. t19.005031. 
( 4 ) No. t19.006513. 
( 5 ) No. t20.002714. 
( 6 ) As clarified in the Notice of Clarification. 
( 7 ) Notice clarifying the Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain polyvinyl alcohols orig­
inating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ C 378, 7.11.2019, p. 9).
 
(55) 
PVA is used as an additive, precursor or agent by, mainly, four user industries in: (i) the production of paper and 
carton board; (ii) the production of PVB (Polyvinyl Butyral) resins used in the production of PVB-films; (iii) the 
production of polymerisation aids for plastics; and (iv) the production of emulsions and adhesives. 
2.2. Like product 
(56) 
The investigation showed that the following products have the same basic physical, chemical and technical char­
acteristics as well as the same basic uses: 
— the product concerned; 
— the product produced and sold on the domestic market of the country concerned; 
— the product produced and sold in the Union by the Union industry. 
(57) 
The Commission found that those products are therefore like products within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the 
basic Regulation. 
2.3. Segmentation 
(58) 
The product concerned is produced and sold in the form of several different product types defined by the industry 
as ‘grades’. Each grade consists of a specific combination of viscosity levels, methanol and ash content, as well as 
degree of hydrolysis, resulting in a wide range of combinations manufactured to meet the demands of customer 
specifications in different industries. 
(59) 
The investigation revealed a large number of PVA grades both for Chinese imports and Union production/sales. 
The different characteristic combinations of these grades were categorised by the Commission within different 
product control numbers (‘PCN’). During the investigation period 34 PCNs of the product concerned were 
imported into the Union by the sampled exporting producers, while the sampled Union producer sold around 
39 different PCNs in the same period. 
(60) 
The information collected during the investigation also showed that some of these grades (sold both by the Union 
industry and exporting producers) have a broad range of application and, generally, have a lower price. Other more 
specialised grades designed for applications with narrow specifications (such as pharmaceutical products or the 
PVB-film production) are on average more expensive. These grades are also sold by Union and exporting 
producers. 
(61) 
However, despite a large number of grades, the Commission found that there is no defined segments in the PVA 
market. Different users can source a number of PVA grades, depending on their required technical specifications. 
For some users the ash content is the most important element, for others the viscosity, and some are able to use 
mostly any of the specification. Each user industry can use a different set of PVA grades interchangeably. Even 
though certain users (such as PVB, pharmaceutical industry) are more limited in terms of the number of grades 
they can use, their grade range still overlaps with other type of users, which are able to source a wider range of 
grades. 
(62) 
For the reasons above, the Commission concluded that all grades compete with each other, at least to a certain 
extent, and therefore a segment analysis was not warranted nor appropriate in this case. In order to analyse the 
price effect among different grades while ensuring a fair comparison, the Commission conducted adjustments to 
reflect differences in some of the characteristics of the different grades. These adjustments are explained in Section 
4.4.2 below. 
(63) 
After disclosure several interested parties, Carbochem, Gamma Chimica FAR Polymer, Wacker and Cordial, claimed 
that the Commission failed to take into account that the PVA market is divided in two segments: high quality PVA 
and low quality PVA. The parties claimed that the products pertaining to these segments are not directly inter­
changeable and that Chinese imports are mostly present in the low quality PVA segment. In addition they claimed 
that certain users can only use certain specific grades of the product concerned in their production process. 
(64) 
The analysis carried out by the Commission confirmed that the different grades, as explained in recital (61), are 
interchangeable between each other, at least to a certain extent. Even if it is true that certain users can source only 
a limited set of grades for their application, these grades do not pertain exclusively to one user’s downstream 
industry but overlap with the grades sourced by other downstream applications. Moreover, the investigation 
revealed that the Chinese exporting producers supply grades for all the four main applications of PVA and 
compete in full with the grades sold by the Union industry.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/7
 
(65) 
The claim was therefore dismissed. 
2.4. Claims regarding product scope 
(66) 
One user, Solutia, producer of PVB-film, and one unrelated importer, Wegochem, claimed that ‘Low-Ash NMWD 
PVA’ ( 8 ) should be excluded from the scope of the product concerned. The parties reiterated their claim after 
disclosure. 
(67) 
According to them ‘Low-Ash NMWD PVA’ is fundamentally different from standard grade PVA as it has different 
physical, technical and chemical characteristics and requires a high-value added production process. Due to these 
specific characteristics, production of Low-Ash NMWD is technically difficult and complex. Only a few manu­
facturers are qualified to manufacture this particular grade, used in the production of PVB film, and only one of 
them is active in the PRC. In particular, the molecular weight distribution, the iron content, the low ash and low 
methanol contents are not standard characteristics of the product concerned and makes this grade of PVA unique 
and extremely difficult to produce, as its characteristics have to be within a narrow specification for all the 
parameters simultaneously. 
(68) 
Based on the evidence on file, the Commission disagreed with this analysis. As mentioned in recital (58), PVA is 
sold in several different grades, according to the final use. Each grade has a unique combination of properties (e.g. 
viscosity, hydrolysis, ash and methanol content) that are specifically requested by each user to the producer at the 
time of the purchase order. With regards to the different chemical and physical characteristics, contrary to the 
arguments of the parties, low ash content PVA products fall fully within the product definition as regards its 
essential characteristics (i.e. viscosity, hydrolysis methanol and ash content). Moreover all the producers of low ash 
content PVA produce it on a standard production line, without exceptional production processes being applied. 
(69) 
As regards the narrow molecular weight distribution (‘NMWD’), this is not a characteristic akin to hydrolysis, 
viscosity or ash content. NMWD does not change from production batch to production batch. Once a production 
line is qualified to produce NMWD PVA all the PVA produced by that line will meet the requirements as it does 
not involve any additional steps in the production process and it does not have any peculiar characteristics 
radically different from any other grades. In addition, it is not exclusively used to produce PVB resin but also 
used for the production of adhesives and water-soluble barrier coatings. 
(70) 
Finally, the investigation revealed that, in terms of supply, several PVA producers can produce low ash NMWD 
PVA. In addition to the Chinese origin low ash NMWD PVA, comparable low ash content PVA, can be sourced 
from producers located in the United States of America (‘USA’) and from the Union producers. 
(71) 
After disclosure, the parties argued that the Commission failed to take into account that all the relevant char­
acteristics of ‘Low-Ash NMWD PVA’ must be met simultaneously and that there are few producers qualified to 
supply low ash NMWD PVA. 
(72) 
Contrary to the parties’ claim, the Commission in fact took into consideration that all the parameters for ‘Low-Ash 
NMWD PVA’ must be met simultaneously. Both the methanol and the ash contents fall fully within the product 
definition as regards its essential characteristics, as well as within the Commission’s categorisation based on PCNs. 
The investigation also showed that both the Union producers and exporting producers are able to meet the 
required specifications. As regards the narrow molecular weight distribution in combination with the other two 
parameters, as explained above in recital (69), once a production line is qualified to produce NMWD PVA, all the 
PVA produced by that line will meet the requirements for narrow molecular weight distribution, and can then be 
combined with the appropriate methanol and ash content according to each customer’s requirement. Hence it’s not 
a characteristic pertaining exclusively to PVA produced for Solutia. 
(73) 
As regards the second point, Solutia had a multi-sourcing strategy, producing PVA for its own consumption, as 
well as extensively using multiple sources of supply of PVA from the Union industry, the exporting producers in 
the PRC and the producers in third countries. The Commission found that there are at least four producers in three 
different continents that are able to produce ‘Low-Ash NMWD PVA’. Thus, while it is true that the qualification of 
a new PVA supplier could be a difficult and long process, the investigation showed that there are several alternative 
sources that would limit significantly the risk of a shortage of supply for Solutia even with the measures in force. 
Moreover, in the Commission’s view, the level of the anti-dumping duties would not prevent Solutia’s supplier 
from the PRC to continue to export PVA at a fair price.
EN 
L 315/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 8 ) ‘Low-ash narrow molecular weight distribution PVA’.
 
(74) 
The claim was therefore rejected. 
(75) 
Three other interested parties, namely Cordial, Carbochem and Wacker, claimed repeatedly, and reiterated their 
claims after disclosure, that the product concerned imported from the PRC differed substantially from the like 
product produced by the Union industry. Their main argument was that the PVA imported from the PRC had a 
significantly broader range of tolerance in terms of ash content, sodium-acetate percentage and methanol content 
as compared to the PVA produced and sold by the Union industry. While in the production of PVB resins and 
certain emulsions these characteristics had a significant impact, for other applications such as paper, adhesives and 
textile additives they were not relevant. Therefore, in their opinion, the product concerned and the like product 
were substantially different and suitable for different applications, and the Union market was divided into high- 
quality and low-quality PVA. 
(76) 
The investigation revealed that for almost all applications, the customers set the maximum acceptable limit of ash 
content, and can easily accept PVA with much lower ash content than their top thresholds. In addition, the 
difference between the costs of production of the alleged ‘standard’ PVA (i.e. ash content above 0,5 %) versus 
‘low ash content’ PVA (ash content below 0,5 %) was negligible, as the production process for PVA in terms of the 
ash content is always the same. However, it is true that the ash content is less relevant for applications such as 
paper or adhesives. The investigation also found that, except for one user, all user industries were purchasing PVA 
with both low and high ash content. 
(77) 
Concerning the methanol content, the Union industry produces PVA with a significantly lower methanol content 
than the Chinese producers. However, both the product concerned and the like product are perfectly in range with 
the different methanol thresholds established during the investigation. Moreover, also for methanol, differences are 
a matter of maximum acceptable levels and not of narrow specification. In addition, the investigation revealed that 
the methanol content, both in the PRC and in the Union, has a negligible effect on both the selling price and the 
cost of manufacturing of PVA. 
(78) 
Moreover, as explained above in recitals (58) to (62), the various grades of PVA share the basic characteristics and 
their uses are to a large extent identical and interchangeable. The sole ash or methanol content levels do not define, 
alone, the applications or the price of the product concerned as it is the combination with the other relevant 
characteristics, such as viscosity and hydrolysis, which defines the grade characteristics, its possible end use and the 
selling price. 
(79) 
The evidence collected in the investigation revealed that, while the average price difference between the PVA grades 
with ‘low ash content’ versus those with ‘standard ash content’ is about 10 %. However, PVA prices can vary up to 
40 % between PVA grades with the same ash content. In addition, certain allegedly cheaper grades with a ‘standard’ 
ash content can be up to 27 % more expensive than those with ‘low ash content’ grades. Therefore it cannot be 
concluded, as the interested parties claimed, that the Union market was divided into high-quality PVA (produced 
by the Union industry) and low-quality PVA (imported from the PRC) based on the ash and methanol content, 
neither that this alleged division is reflected in the prices and the production cost. On the contrary, as explained 
above in recitals (58) to (62), several grades with alleged ‘standard’ specifications are also in competition with 
alleged ‘high-end’ grades of the like product. 
(80) 
After disclosure, Wacker argued that the Commission assessment that methanol content has a negligible effect on 
the selling price and the cost of manufacturing of PVA was incorrect. 
(81) 
The investigation showed that PVA with a very low methanol content has a higher production cost than PVA with 
the same characteristics but with higher methanol content. However, as explained above in recital (77), the data 
collected during the investigation also showed that for both the Union producers and the exporting producers the 
different methanol levels had a negligible impact on the selling prices. Therefore, the Commission found that the 
methanol content has a negligible effect on the selling price of PVA. It is true that the Union industry can produce 
PVA with a very low methanol content. However this is a niche product, sold in negligible quantities, while the 
largest part of the PVA sold in the Union market has standard methanol content. 
(82) 
The claim was therefore rejected 
(83) 
Another party, Cordial, claimed that the PVA produced in the Union is not suitable for its use as it required PVA 
in powder form and with a hydrolysis level above 89 %.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/9
 
(84) 
PVA is usually produced in a white solid granular form. However it can be further processed and transformed in 
powder form through a grinding process. As the investigation revealed, the Union industry is perfectly capable to 
carry out this further step. 
(85) 
Concerning the hydrolysis level, the data collected in the proceeding showed that the Union industry produced, 
and sold PVA with a hydrolysis level above 89 % during the IP. The claim was therefore rejected. 
3. DUMPING 
3.1. Normal value 
(86) 
According to Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, ‘the normal value shall normally be based on the prices paid or 
payable, in the ordinary course of trade, by independent customers in the exporting country’. 
(87) 
According to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, ‘(i)n case it is determined […] that it is not appropriate to use 
domestic prices and costs in the exporting country due to the existence in that country of significant distortions 
within the meaning of point (b), the normal value shall be constructed exclusively on the basis of costs of 
production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks’, and ‘shall include an undistorted and reasonable 
amount of administrative, selling and general costs and for profits’. As further explained below, the Commission 
concluded in the present investigation that, based on the evidence available, the application of Article 2(6a) of the 
basic Regulation was appropriate. 
3.1.1. Existence of significant distortions 
3.1.1.1. I n t r o d u c t i o n 
(88) 
Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation defines ‘significant distortions are those distortions which occur when 
reported prices or costs, including the costs of raw materials and energy, are not the result of free market forces as 
they are affected by substantial government intervention. In assessing the existence of significant distortions regard 
shall be had, inter alia, to the potential impact of one or more of the following elements: 
— the market in question being served to a significant extent by enterprises which operate under the ownership, 
control or policy supervision or guidance of the authorities of the exporting country, 
— state presence in firms allowing the state to interfere with respect to prices or costs, 
— public policies or measures discriminating in favour of domestic suppliers or otherwise influencing free market 
forces, 
— the lack, discriminatory application or inadequate enforcement of bankruptcy, corporate or property laws, 
— wage costs being distorted, 
— access to finance granted by institutions which implement public policy objectives or otherwise not acting 
independently of the state’. 
(89) 
According to Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, the assessment of the existence of significant distortions 
within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) shall take into account, amongst others, the non-exhaustive list of elements 
in the former provision. Pursuant to Article 2(6a)(b)of the basic Regulation, in assessing the existence of significant 
distortions, regard shall be had to the potential impact of one or more of these elements on prices and costs in the 
exporting country of the product concerned. Indeed, as that list is non-cumulative, not all the elements need to be 
given regard to for a finding of significant distortions. Moreover, the same factual circumstances may be used to 
demonstrate the existence of one or more of the elements of the list. However, any conclusion on significant 
distortions within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) must be made on the basis of all the evidence at hand. The 
overall assessment on the existence of distortions may also take into account the general context and situation in 
the exporting country, in particular where the fundamental elements of the exporting country’s economic and 
administrative set-up provides the government with substantial powers to intervene in the economy in such a way 
that prices and costs are not the result of the free development of market forces.
EN 
L 315/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(90) 
Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic Regulation provides that ‘[w]here the Commission has well-founded indications of the 
possible existence of significant distortions as referred to in point (b) in a certain country or a certain sector in that 
country, and where appropriate for the effective application of this Regulation, the Commission shall produce, 
make public and regularly update a report describing the market circumstances referred to in point (b) in that 
country or sector’. 
(91) 
Pursuant to this provision, the Commission has issued a country report concerning the PRC (hereinafter ‘the 
Report’) ( 9 ), showing the existence of substantial government intervention at many levels of the economy, including 
specific distortions in many key factors of production (such as land, energy, capital, raw materials and labour) as 
well as in specific sectors (such as steel and chemicals). The Report was placed on the investigation file at the 
initiation stage. The complaint also contained some relevant evidence complementing the Report. Interested parties 
were invited to rebut, comment or supplement the evidence contained in the investigation file at the time of 
initiation. 
(92) 
The complaint contained information on a number of distortions in the PVA market in China. First, the prices of 
raw materials needed to produce VAM: petroleum, natural gas or coal are distorted, due to governmental inter­
vention in form of sectoral plans, presence of SOEs and subsidies. Secondly, the complainant refers to distortions 
in the cost of other intermediary materials, notably in the chemical sector. The complainant mentions the problem 
of overcapacity in the chemical sector, presence of SOEs and very low production utilisation in methanol, acetic 
acid, calcium carbide and acetylene having an impact on the prices of those materials. Third, the complainant lists 
the distortions in the cost of energy due to state interference by governmental pricing policy, presence of SOEs and 
preferential energy prices for certain industries, such as the producers of calcium carbide. Furthermore, the 
complaint mentions supply of capital, access to finance, as well as lack of effective environmental controls as 
factors having impact on prices in China. Finally, the complaint points out that the largest PVA producers are SOEs 
and that there are ambitious plans to further expand the PVA industry in Inner Mongolia, which point to the 
involvement of the Chinese state. 
(93) 
As indicated in recital (42), the GOC did not comment or provide evidence supporting or rebutting the existing 
evidence on the case file, including the Report and the additional evidence provided by the complainant, on the 
existence of significant distortions and/or on the appropriateness of the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation in the case at hand. Only following the final disclosure did the GOC comment on the Report and 
evidence concerning the existence of significant distortions. The GOC submitted, first, that the publication of the 
Report put the EU industry in an advantageous position when bringing complaints. In the GOC’s view, this allows 
for judgment without trial, it goes against the spirit of rule of law and it results in punishing certain business in the 
name of national or sectorial distortions. Second, the GOC submitted that the Commission has issued only one 
report, i.e. the Report on China. Third, according to the GOC, the Commission has not carried out any evaluation 
on whether the EU market or markets of its Member States would contain the elements of significant distortions. 
Neither has a similar evaluation been carried out in the context of determining the appropriate representative 
country in investigations. Fourth, the GOC submitted that the content of the Report is misrepresentative, one- 
sided, or even absurd, severely deviating from the facts. Relying on the Report instead of an actual investigation is, 
according to the GOC’s submission, manifestly inconsistent with the principle of due process. Fifth, the GOC raised 
the question whether the Report, as a Commission staff working document, complies with the criteria of the basic 
Regulation requiring a report to be produced, made public and regularly updated by the Commission. 
(94) 
In reply to the GOC’s comments, the Commission notes, first, that according to Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic 
Regulation, where the Commission has well-founded indications of the possible existence of significant distortions 
in country or sector, it is under an obligation to produce a report describing the relevant market circumstances. 
According to the same provision of the basic Regulation, the possibility for interested parties to rely on the 
evidence contained in such report is complemented by a corresponding possibility for other interested parties to 
rebut, supplement or comment on the report and its evidence. Second, as the Commission has publicly stated at 
various occasions, the reason to publish a reports on China first was motivated by the relative importance of China 
in the Commission’s trade defence practice. This does not mean that the Commission would intend to only publish 
the Report. The Commission is considering similar reports about other countries Third, the Commission recalls 
that for the purpose of establishing the existence of significant distortions in the sense of 2(6a)(b) of the basic 
Regulation, the potential impact of one or more of the elements listed in that provision is analysed on prices and
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/11 
( 9 ) Commission Staff Working Document on Significant Distortions in the Economy of the People’s Republic of China for the 
purposes of Trade Defence Investigations, 20 December 2017, SWD(2017) 483 final/2 (hereafter ‘Report’).
 
costs in the exporting country. The cost structure and price formation mechanisms in other markets, such as in the 
EU, are not taken into consideration in this context. In addition, the process of selecting a representative country is 
described in detail below in Section 3.1.2. Fourth, the Commission notes that the GOC fails to indicate specific 
instances of where it considers the Report being misrepresentative, one-sided or absurd in view of which the 
Commission is not in position to address such general allegations. Nevertheless, with respect to the principle of 
due process, the Commission refers to the various instances in the course of the present investigation where 
interested parties, including the GOC, were given an opportunity to participate in the investigations, including to 
comment on the existence of significant of significant distortions (see above, recitals (3) and (25)). Fifth, the 
Commission notes that Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic Regulation does not prescribe a specific format for the reports 
on significant distortions, neither does that provision define a channel for publication or intervals for updating the 
reports. The Commission can only reiterate once again that while being given ample opportunity to comment on 
the content of the Report, the GOC has chosen not to do so (see recitals (37) and (42) above). For all these 
reasons, the Commission rejected the arguments raised by the GOC. 
(95) 
Further comments concerning the existence of significant distortions were submitted on behalf of all three 
exporting producers. First, they claimed that sections of the Report referred to in the complaint, did not prove 
there is anything that can amount to significant price distortions such that the methodology under Article 2(6a) of 
the basic Anti-Dumping Regulation was applicable. Rather, the Report only claimed some alleged government 
interventions in some markets in China, notably in the energy sector. 
(96) 
Secondly, they claimed that the EU should not deviate from the standard methodology in establishing the normal 
value that is to use only domestic prices and costs of the exporting country, unless the ADA permits otherwise. In 
light of the above, the EU should follow the standard methodology in accordance with Article 2 of the ADA. 
Moreover, the interested parties also claimed that the notion of significant distortions does not even exist in the 
ADA. According to the submitted comments: 1. there is no legal basis in the ADA or in GATT 1994 for such 
specific action; and 2. the EU – Biodiesel (Argentina) case establishes that investigating authorities must use the 
production costs actually incurred by producers or exporters for the calculation of constructed normal value. As a 
result, the construction of the normal value is not consistent with Articles 2.2 and 2.2.1.1 of the ADA. 
(97) 
To reply to the first argument, the Commission recalls that the Notice of Initiation ( 10 ) referred to a number of 
irregularities in the Chinese PVA market, including ‘inter alia, in Section 4.2.1 “Structure of the Chinese Planning 
System”, Section 10.1.1 “Energy Market Overview”, Section 10.1.2 “Plans” in the Energy sector, Section 10.2.1.2 
“Price Differentiation”, Section 11.2 “Access to Capital”, Section 11.4.4.1 “Evergreening and Zombie Companies”, 
Section 11.4.4 “Government Response to Debt a Risk”, Section 16.2.5 “State-Owned Enterprises” in the Chemical 
Sector, Section 16.3 “Regulatory Framework/Quantitative Development Targets” and Section 16.2.6 “Overcapacity” 
of the country report.’ Furthermore, the Notice of Initiation referred to the 12 th and 13 th Five Year Plans as well as 
a number of reports referred to by the complainant. Therefore the Commission considers that the list of evidence 
listed in the Notice of Initiation was sufficient to warrant initiation of an investigation on the basis of Article 2(6a) 
of the basic Regulation. 
(98) 
Second, for the purpose of this investigation the Commission has concluded in recital (171) that it is appropriate 
to apply Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. The Commission does not agree with the submission of the 
interested party that the Commission must not apply Article 2(6a). On the contrary, the Commission considers 
that Article 2(6a) is applicable and must be applied in the circumstances of this case. In addition, the Commission 
considers that this provision is consistent with the European Union’s WTO obligations. It is the Commission’s view 
that, as clarified in DS473 EU-Biodiesel (Argentina), the provisions of the basic Regulation that apply generally 
with respect to all WTO Members, in particular Article 2(5), second sub-paragraph, permit the use of data from a 
third country, duly adjusted when such adjustment is necessary and substantiated. The Commission finally recalled 
that the dispute DS473 EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) did not concern the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation, which is the relevant legal basis for the determination of normal value in this investigation. Therefore, 
the Commission rejected this claim.
EN 
L 315/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 10 ) See Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain polyvinyl alcohols originating in the People’s 
Republic of China (OJ C 256, 30.7.2019, p. 4), point 3.
 
(99) 
Furthermore, one interested party, namely Wacker, submitted comments with regard to the existence of significant 
distortions. First, Wacker submitted that the methodology set out under Article 2(6a) of the Basic AD Regulation is 
inconsistent as such with Articles 2.1 and 2.2.2 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement. This is because, the concept of 
‘dumping’ concerns the pricing behaviour of individual exporters/foreign producers, as noted by the Appellate 
Body in US – Stainless Steel from Mexico, para. 86. Furthermore, Article 2.2 of the ADA doesn’t allow for the 
possibility to resort to the calculation of cost of production based on costs from outside the country where the 
exported product originates. Last, [Wacker] submitted that the Commission intends to use third country costs for 
all the Chinese factors of production, which is inconsistent with Article 2.2.1.1 of the ADA as also confirmed by 
the Appellate Body in EU – Biodiesel (Argentina) and by the Panel in EU – Biodiesel (Indonesia). 
(100) The question of Article 2(6a) compatibility with WTO law was already discussed in recital (98) above. 
(101) Secondly, Wacker claimed that as clarified by the Appellate Body in US – Carbon Steel (India), the mere fact the 
government is a predominant supplier of a good in a country does not make prices in that country low/cheap/ 
distorted or non-market oriented. 
(102) The Commission recalled that the US – Carbon Steel (India) dispute concerned countervailing measures and thus 
deals with the compatibility of the measures with the SCM Agreement. Therefore, the findings in this case are 
irrelevant for an anti-dumping investigation, which is subject to ADA. 
(103) Third, the adjustment of the selling, general and administrative costs (‘SG&A’) and the cost of production on 
account of the alleged distortion of the raw material costs as well as labour costs among others, is inconsistent 
with Article 2.2.2 of the ADA. In any event, Wacker claimed that the application of Article 2(6a) cannot be 
justified as there is no distortion of input costs or SG&A. 
(104) The Commission noted that once it is determined that due to the existence of significant distortions for the 
exporting country in accordance with Article 2(6a)(b) basic Regulation it is not appropriate to use domestic prices 
and costs in the exporting country, the normal value in the country of origin is constructed by reference to 
undistorted prices or benchmarks in an appropriate representative country for each exporting producer according 
to Article 2(6a)(a). The same provision of the basic Regulation also allows the use of domestic costs if they are 
positively established not to be distorted. Therefore, the exporting producers had the possibility to provide 
evidence that their individual SG&A costs and/or other input costs of were actually undistorted. However, as 
evidenced in sections 3.1.1.2 to 3.1.1.9, the Commission has established the existence of distortions in the PVA 
industry and there was no evidence as to the factors of production of individual exporting producers being 
undistorted. Therefore, these claims were rejected. 
(105) Fourth, Wacker claimed that the fact that the Chinese PVA producers are largely state-owned is irrelevant to the 
present dumping investigation as the Chinese PVA market is completely market based. 
(106) The Commission recalled that according to Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, state ownership can be an 
important indicator of the existence of the significant distortions. Even the privately owned PVA producers, as 
described in detail in sections 3.1.1.3 and 3.1.1.4, operate in the environment dominated by the state presence and 
guidance of the PVA industry as well as the industries related to PVA production, such as producers of raw 
materials for the production of PVA. 
(107) Fifth, Wacker submitted that the cost of coal, gas, crude oil and electricity is not distorted in China and in fact 
China is an importer of coal and gas and electricity prices are often higher than in other countries. Therefore, the 
Commission should use the Chinese prices for those inputs. 
(108) The Commission recalls that it doesn’t have convincing evidence to establish that certain costs are not distorted. It 
is also noted in recital (169) that, according to evidence on the file, all the sampled exporting producers sourced all 
their main inputs in the PRC. Since the Commission established country wide presence of significant distortions in 
the PVA sector in accordance with Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation and there is no evidence according to 
Article 2(6a)(a) third dash of the basic Regulation, the Commission rejected this claim.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/13
 
(109) In their comments on final disclosure, one Union producer / user re-submitted a set of comments essentially 
identical to those described in recital (99) above, insisting that Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is inconsistent 
as such with Articles 2.2 and 2.2.2 of ADA and that the Commission, while stating that Article 2(6a) is consistent 
with the EU’s WTO obligations, does not provide any further explanation about the legal grounds to support its 
statement. Instead, the Commission allegedly contradicts itself and is scrambling to find a legal justification for the 
application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(110) Referring to Article 2.2 of the ADA, the Union producer / user submitted further in this connection that the 
construction of normal value is permissible only in three specific situations specified in that provision and that this 
list of such situations is exhaustive. Consequently, the Union producer / user argues that before resorting to 
construct the normal value, the Commission had to establish that one of the three situations outlined in Article 2.2 
of ADA exists rather than focus on demonstrating the existence of supposed distortions in the Chinese economy. 
In the Union producer / the user’s view, Article 2.2 of ADA does not permit any exception on the grounds of cost 
distortions. 
(111) One user submitted a similar line of arguments, even quoting the above argumentation of the Union producer / 
user. Correspondingly, this other user considered the methodology applied by the Commission to be in violation 
of WTO law because the ADA only permits the use the cost of production to calculate the normal value when 
there are no sales in the ordinary course of trade in the domestic market because or in case of a particular market 
situation affecting the comparability of the prices. In addition, the user submits that should the significant 
distortions referred to by the Commission be considered to amount to a particular market situation, such 
distortions would equally affect Chinese domestic and the export prices which in turn would prohibit the 
Commission to depart from using the sales prices in the PRC. 
(112) Similarly to the above arguments of the Union producer / user, one sampled exporting producer submitted in its 
comments on final disclosure that the use of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation results in various violations of 
Article 2 ADA which, in the exporting producer’s view is confirmed by several Panel and Appellate Body Reports. 
(113) Identical arguments were presented also in other sampled exporting producers’ comments on final disclosure, 
submitting that the Commission not failed to establish normal value by conducting a strict comparison with 
Chinese prices or costs but that if effectively ignored Article 2 ADA altogether. To illustrate the alleged short­
comings of the Commission’s approach, which, according to the sampled exporting producers, results in inflated 
dumping margins, the producers provide an illustrative alternative approach on how the normal value could be 
established. In addition, these sampled exporting producers referred to the findings of the panel in the DS494 EU – 
Cost adjustment methodologies (Russia). The sampled exporting producers submitted that the findings of the panel 
would support their view that Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is WTO inconsistent since, according to the 
sampled exporting producers, Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is nothing more than a reinforced Article 2(5). 
(114) In addition, the GOC considered constructing the normal value in line Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation as 
inconsistent with Article 2.2 of the ADA which provides an exhaustive list of three situations where the normal 
value can be constructed, none of which covers the conditions foreseen by Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
Moreover, the GOC took the view that when constructing normal value WTO rules require using the cost of 
production in the country of origin plus a reasonable amount for administrative, selling and general costs and for 
profits when constructing normal value. However, Article 2(6a) of the Basic AD Regulation broadened the scope of 
data sources to include the costs of production and sale in an appropriate representative country, or international 
prices, costs or benchmarks. 
(115) In its comments on final disclosure, one interested party, without elaborating further on its argument, claimed that 
the Commission was not entitled to resort to a constructed normal value. 
(116) In reply to the Union producer / the user’s arguments, the Commission reiterates its position explained above in 
recital (98) that Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is fully consistent with the European Union’s WTO 
obligations. Union producer / the user’s argument therefore must be rejected. The corresponding arguments of 
the sampled exporting producers, the interested party and the GOC described above in recitals (112) – (115) are 
rejected for the same reasons. As for the alternative approach to construct normal value proposed by some
EN 
L 315/14 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
sampled exporting producers, this argument is addressed below in recital (271). As for the reference to DS494 
EU – Cost adjustment methodologies (Russia), the Commission notes moreover that the panel explicitly stated that 
Regulation 2017/2321 ( 11 ) which had introduced Article 2(6a) into the basic Regulation was not within its terms 
of reference. 
(117) In their comments on final disclosure, the same Union producer / user further submitted that it had provided 
significant evidence from the Commission’s own reports on the electricity and gas markets showing that the 
electricity and LNG costs in China are higher than in the EU Member States and were higher in China during 2018 
and 2019. In this respect, the Union producer / user claimed that the Commission had not addressed that evidence 
but had instead reversed the burden of proof in noting that none of the Chinese companies proved that their costs 
were not distorted. the Union producer / user argued in this connection that the Commission’s burden of proof is 
not discharged by primarily relying on the Report which is in any event based on historical information preceding 
the investigation period, which does not specifically cover the PVA sector and which does not take into account 
the Commission’s own finding that Chinese electricity, gas, and oil prices are higher than in EU Member States. 
(118) In reply to the Union producer / user’s arguments, the Commission recalls that the existence of significant 
distortions under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is not a function of absolute or relative values of certain 
inputs, such as electricity, gas or oil. Instead, the relevant criterion to establish the existence of significant 
distortions is whether reported prices or costs, including the costs of raw materials and energy, are not the 
result of free market forces because they are affected by substantial government intervention. The Commission 
carried out the assessment in sections 3.1.1.2 to 3.1.1.9 below and, on the basis of this analysis, concluded in 
section 3.1.1.10 that it is not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs to establish normal value. The 
Commission recalls further that where prices and costs are affected by significant distortions, domestic costs 
can only be used as a source to construct normal value to the extent that they are positively established not 
to be distorted, on the basis of accurate and appropriate evidence. However, as explained above in recital (108) 
there is no accurate and appropriate evidence to that effect. Union producer / user’s argument that the Commission 
reversed the burden of proof must therefore be rejected. 
(119) In an additional argument submitted upon final disclosure, Union producer / user claimed that the way in which 
the Commission constructed the normal value is illegal since the Commission disregarded the requirements of the 
last sentence of Article 2.2 of ADA. Referring to the EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) dispute, the Union producer / user 
submitted that when relying on any out-of-country information to determine the cost of production, the 
Commission is obliged to ensure that such information is used to arrive at the cost of production in the 
country of origin. However, the Commission has simply replaced the production/ input costs of the Chinese 
PVA exporting producers with Turkish costs, failing to make the relevant adjustments. This resulted in inflated raw 
material costs since the Commission, on the one hand, included domestic transport costs, international freight and 
insurance costs, as well as import duties from the Turkish benchmark costs and, on the other hand, the 
Commission has made no effort to adapt the Turkish import prices to reflect the cost of production in China. 
To illustrate the allegedly inflated and illogical Turkish costs used by the Commission to construct normal value, 
the Union producer / user submits that it purchases certain raw materials, such as acetic acid or coal, at the EU 
market at a significantly lower price than the Turkish benchmark prices used by the Commission. 
(120) The same line of argumentation was echoed by one user which, in its comment on final disclosure, submitted that 
the normal value calculation of the Commission in EU – Biodiesel (Argentina) is similar to the methodology 
described by Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation and the Commission cannot therefore dismiss the Appellate 
Body's decision in EU – Biodiesel (Argentina) by merely stating that Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation was only 
introduced later on. 
(121) In reply to the Union producer / user’s argument, the Commission reiterates first of all, as already stated above in 
recital (98), that the dispute DS473 EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) did not concern the application of Article 2(6a) of the 
basic Regulation, which is the relevant legal basis for the determination of normal value in this investigation. 
According to Article 2(6a)(a), the normal value in the country of origin should reflect the undistorted price of the 
raw materials in the representative country which, in the present case, is Turkey. Union producer / user’s references
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/15 
( 11 ) Regulation (EU) 2017/2321 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 amending Regulation (EU) 
2016/1036 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union and Regulation (EU) 
2016/1037 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the European Union (OJ L 338, 19.12.2017, 
p. 1).
 
to its own purchasing prices in the EU are therefore not relevant for the purpose of constructing the normal value. 
In the same vein, Union producer / user’s argument that the Commission has made no effort to adapt the Turkish 
import prices to reflect the distorted cost of production in China ignores the fact under Article 2(6a)(a) the normal 
value needs to reflect an undistorted price of the raw materials, based on information from the representative 
country. Union producer / user’s argument that domestic transport costs, freight and insurance and import duties 
should be disregarded must also be rejected, as explained in more detail below in recital (269). 
(122) The argument that the Commission cannot depart from domestic prices referring merely to the fact that the 
provision of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation was introduced later than the EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) must be 
also rejected. As stated already above in recital (98), the EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) did not concern the application of 
Article 2(6a). Consequently, the Commission considers the EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) decision as not relevant in the 
present case not due to the point in time when Article 2(6a) was introduced into the basic Regulation but because 
of its distinct legal nature. In any event the EU-Biodiesel (Argentina) case confirms that there are circumstances in 
which the normal value in the country of origin may be constructed by having regard to information from a 
representative third country. 
(123) The Commission examined whether it was appropriate or not to use domestic prices and costs in the PRC, due to 
the existence of significant distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. The 
Commission did so on the basis of the evidence available on the file, including the evidence contained in the 
Report, which relies on publicly available sources. That analysis covered the examination of the substantial 
government interventions in the PRC’s economy in general, but also the specific market situation in the 
relevant sector including the product concerned. 
3.1.1.2. S i g n i f i c a n t d i s t o r t i o n s a f f e c t i n g t h e d o m e s t i c p r i c e s a n d c o s t s i n t h e P R C 
(124) The Chinese economic system is based on the concept of ‘socialist market economy’. That concept is enshrined in the 
Chinese Constitution and determines the economic governance of the PRC. The core principle is the ‘socialist public 
ownership of the means of production, namely, ownership by the whole people and collective ownership by the working people’. 
The State-owned economy is the ‘leading force of the national economy’ and the State has the mandate ‘to ensure its 
consolidation and growth’ ( 12 ). Consequently, the overall setup of the Chinese economy not only allows for 
substantial government interventions into the economy, but such interventions are expressly mandated. The 
notion of supremacy of public ownership over the private one permeates the entire legal system and is emphasized 
as a general principle in all central pieces of legislation. The Chinese property law is a prime example: it refers to 
the primary stage of socialism and entrusts the State with upholding the basic economic system under which the 
public ownership plays a dominant role. Other forms of ownership are tolerated, with the law permitting them to 
develop side by side with the State ownership ( 13 ). 
(125) In addition, under Chinese law, the socialist market economy is developed under the leadership of the Chinese 
Communist Party (‘CCP’). The structures of the Chinese State and of the CCP are intertwined at every level (legal, 
institutional, personal), forming a superstructure in which the roles of CCP and the State are indistinguishable. 
Following an amendment of the Chinese Constitution in March 2018, the leading role of the CCP was given an 
even greater prominence by being reaffirmed in the text of Article 1 of the Constitution. Following the already 
existing first sentence of the provision: ‘[t]he socialist system is the basic system of the People’s Republic of China’ a new 
second sentence was inserted which reads: ‘[t]he defining feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the leadership 
of the Communist Party of China.’ ( 14 ) This illustrates the unquestioned and ever growing control of the CCP over the 
economic system of the PRC. This leadership and control is inherent to the Chinese system and goes well beyond 
the situation customary in other countries where the governments exercise general macroeconomic control within 
the boundaries of which free market forces are at play. 
(126) The Chinese State engages in an interventionist economic policy in pursuance of goals, which coincide with the 
political agenda set by the CCP rather than reflecting the prevailing economic conditions in a free market ( 15 ). The 
interventionist economic tools deployed by the Chinese authorities are manifold, including the system of industrial 
planning, the financial system, as well as the level of the regulatory environment.
EN 
L 315/16 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 12 ) Report – Chapter 2, p. 6-7. 
( 13 ) Report – Chapter 2, p. 10. 
( 14 ) Available at http://www.fdi.gov.cn/1800000121_39_4866_0_7.html (last viewed 15 July 2019). 
( 15 ) Report – Chapter 2, p. 20-21.
 
(127) First, on the level of overall administrative control, the direction of the Chinese economy is governed by a complex 
system of industrial planning which affects all economic activities within the country. The totality of these plans 
covers a comprehensive and complex matrix of sectors and crosscutting policies and is present on all levels of 
government. Plans at provincial level are detailed while national plans set broader targets. Plans also specify the 
means in order to support the relevant industries/sectors as well as the timeframes in which the objectives need to 
be achieved. Some plans still contain explicit output targets while this was a regular feature in previous planning 
cycles. Under the plans, individual industrial sectors and/or projects are being singled out as (positive or negative) 
priorities in line with the government priorities and specific development goals are attributed to them (industrial 
upgrade, international expansion etc.). The economic operators, private and State-owned alike, must effectively 
adjust their business activities according to the realities imposed by the planning system. This is not only because 
of the binding nature of the plans but also because the relevant Chinese authorities at all levels of government 
adhere to the system of plans and use their vested powers accordingly, thereby inducing the economic operators to 
comply with the priorities set out in the plans (see also section 3.1.1.5 below) ( 16 ). 
(128) Second, on the level of allocation of financial resources, the financial system of the PRC is dominated by the State- 
owned commercial banks. Those banks, when setting up and implementing their lending policy need to align 
themselves with the government’s industrial policy objectives rather than primarily assessing the economic merits 
of a given project (see also section 3.1.1.8 below) ( 17 ). The same applies to the other components of the Chinese 
financial system, such as the stock markets, bond markets, private equity markets etc. Also these parts of the 
financial sector other than the banking sector are institutionally and operationally set up in a manner not geared 
towards maximizing the efficient functioning of the financial markets but towards ensuring control and allowing 
intervention by the State and the CCP ( 18 ). 
(129) Third, on the level of regulatory environment, the interventions by the State into the economy take a number of 
forms. For instance, the public procurement rules are regularly used in pursuit of policy goals other than economic 
efficiency, thereby undermining market based principles in the area. The applicable legislation specifically provides 
that public procurement shall be conducted in order to facilitate the achievement of goals designed by State 
policies. However, the nature of these goals remains undefined, thereby leaving broad margin of appreciation to 
the decision-making bodies ( 19 ). Similarly, in the area of investment, the GOC maintains significant control and 
influence over the destination and magnitude of both State and private investment. Investment screening as well as 
various incentives, restrictions, and prohibitions related to investment are used by authorities as an important tool 
for supporting industrial policy goals, such as maintaining State control over key sectors or bolstering domestic 
industry ( 20 ). 
(130) In sum, the Chinese economic model is based on certain basic axioms, which provide for and encourage manifold 
government interventions. Such substantial government interventions are at odds with the free play of market 
forces, resulting in distorting the effective allocation of resources in line with market principles ( 21 ). 
3.1.1.3. S i g n i f i c a n t d i s t o r t i o n s a c c o r d i n g t o A r t i c l e 2 ( 6 a ) ( b ) , f i r s t i n d e n t o f t h e 
b a s i c R e g u l a t i o n : t h e m a r k e t i n q u e s t i o n b e i n g s e r v e d t o a s i g n i f i c a n t 
e x t e n t b y e n t e r p r i s e s w h i c h o p e r a t e u n d e r t h e o w n e r s h i p , c o n t r o l o r 
p o l i c y s u p e r v i s i o n o r g u i d a n c e o f t h e a u t h o r i t i e s o f t h e e x p o r t i n g c o u n t r y 
(131) In the PRC, enterprises operating under the ownership, control and/or policy supervision or guidance by the State 
represent an essential part of the economy. 
(132) The GOC and the CCP maintain structures that ensure their continued influence over enterprises, and in particular 
State-owned enterprises (SOEs). The State (and in many aspects also the CCP) not only actively formulates and 
oversees the implementation of general economic policies by individual SOEs, but it also claims its rights to 
participate in operational decision making in SOEs. This is typically done through rotation of cadres between
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/17 
( 16 ) Report – Chapter 3, p. 41, 73-74. 
( 17 ) Report – Chapter 6, p. 120-121. 
( 18 ) Report – Chapter 6. p. 122 – 135. 
( 19 ) Report – Chapter 7, p. 167-168. 
( 20 ) Report – Chapter 8, p. 169–170, 200-201. 
( 21 ) Report – Chapter 2, p. 15-16, Report – Chapter 4, p. 50, p. 84, Report – Chapter 5, p. 108-9.
 
government authorities and SOEs, through presence of party members on SOEs executive bodies and of party cells 
in companies (see also section 3.1.1.4), as well as through shaping the corporate structure of the SOE sector ( 22 ). In 
exchange, SOEs enjoy a particular status within the Chinese economy, which entails a number of economic 
benefits, in particular shielding from competition and preferential access to relevant inputs, including finance ( 23 ). 
(133) Specifically in the PVA sector, a substantial degree of ownership by the GOC persists. Out of the sampled 
companies, Anhui Wan Wei High Tech Materials belonging to the Wan Wei Group is a SOE with an annual 
capacity of 350 000 tonnes/year, accounting for 28 % of the nominal domestic PVA production capacity and 40 % 
of the actual production capacity ( 24 ). It is also the largest PVA producer in China, next to Sinopec and Inner 
Mongolia Shuangxin ( 25 ). Mengwei, another company belonging to the Wan Wei Group, is actively promoted to 
become a major PVA producer as part of the industrialisation project of Inner Mongolia. According to the 
Mengwei’s website: ‘The annual output of the project is 200 000 tonnes of vinyl acetate (VAC) and 
100 000 tonnes of PVA, with a total investment of about 1,5 billion yuan, which is the largest one-time 
investment capacity PVA project in China. […] The company plans to continue to invest more than 7 billion 
yuan during the “12th Five Year Plan” period, and then build a 100 000 tonne PVA production line, […] At that 
time, a new modern industrial city will stand on the beautiful land of Inner Mongolia ( 26 ).’ 
(134) Sinopec Group is another major Chinese SOE and a PVA producer. Chongqing Chuanwei Chemical Co., Ltd with a 
capacity of 160 000 tonnes per year of polyvinyl alcohol ( 27 ) and was launched as an official project of the 
government of China: ‘The project started construction on April 17, 2009 and was listed by the Ministry of 
Industry and Information Technology as a key construction project to boost domestic demand ( 28 ).’ 
(135) The third sampled company, Inner Mongolia Shuangxin, even though is a privately owned enterprise, has govern­
mental links through the party organisation (see recital (140). 
(136) With the high level of government intervention in the PVA industry and a high share of SOEs in the sector, even 
privately owned producers are prevented from operating under market conditions. Indeed, both public and 
privately owned enterprises in the PVA sector are also subject to policy supervision and guidance as set out in 
section 3.1.1.5 below. 
3.1.1.4. S i g n i f i c a n t d i s t o r t i o n s a c c o r d i n g t o A r t i c l e 2 ( 6 a ) ( b ) , s e c o n d i n d e n t o f t h e 
b a s i c R e g u l a t i o n : S t a t e p r e s e n c e i n f i r m s a l l o w i n g t h e s t a t e t o i n t e r f e r e 
w i t h r e s p e c t t o p r i c e s o r c o s t s 
(137) Apart from exercising control over the economy by means of ownership of SOEs and other tools, the GOC is in 
position to interfere with prices and costs through State presence in firms. While the right to appoint and to 
remove key management personnel in SOEs by the relevant State authorities, as provided for in the Chinese 
legislation, can be considered to reflect the corresponding ownership rights ( 29 ), CCP cells in enterprises, state 
owned and private alike, represent another important channel through which the State can interfere with business 
decisions. According to the PRC’s company law, a CCP organisation is to be established in every company (with at 
least three CCP members as specified in the CCP Constitution ( 30 )) and the company shall provide the necessary 
conditions for the activities of the party organisation. In the past, this requirement appears not to have always been
EN 
L 315/18 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 22 ) Report – Chapter 3, p. 22-24 and Chapter 5, p. 97-108. 
( 23 ) Report – Chapter 5, p. 104-9. 
( 24 ) See http://pdf.dfcfw.com/pdf/H3_AP201809031187055296_1.pdf 
( 25 ) ‘Today, there are 12 main PVA producers in China. Among those, the biggest ones are Wanwei High tech, Sichuanchuanwei 
(SINOPEC), Shuangxin, Ningxia Land totalling 770 000 tonnes/year.’ See http://www.ccxr.com.cn/pdf/201891717121180715.pdf 
( 26 ) http://www.wwgf.com.cn/Article/lists/cateid/10.html 
( 27 ) https://www.sohu.com/a/336366992_617351 
( 28 ) See https://www.yicai.com/news/942233.html 
( 29 ) Report – Chapter 5, p. 100-1. 
( 30 ) Report – Chapter 2, p. 26.
 
followed or strictly enforced. However, since at least 2016 the CCP has reinforced its claims to control business 
decisions in SOEs as a matter of political principle. The CCP is also reported to exercise pressure on private 
companies to put ‘patriotism’ first and to follow party discipline ( 31 ). In 2017, it was reported that party cells 
existed in 70 % of some 1,86 million privately owned companies, with growing pressure for the CCP organisations 
to have a final say over the business decisions within their respective companies ( 32 ). These rules are of general 
application throughout the Chinese economy, across all sectors, including to the producers of PVA and the 
suppliers of their inputs. 
(138) Specifically in the PVA sector, as already pointed out, many of the PVA producers are owned by the State. Wan 
Wei Group’s Mengwei, which was part of the sample, is subject to SASAC administration, for example it’s PVA 
production project is described in the following way: ‘Phase II of the Mengwei 100 000 tonnes/year special 
polyvinyl alcohol resin project and […] are the fund-raising projects included in the company's “Plan for 2015 
non-public Development Bank A-share stock”. They have been approved by the State-owned Assets Supervision 
and Administration Commission of the People’s Government of Anhui Province (Letter [2015] 599): “Approval on 
relevant matters of non-public Development Bank stock of Anhui Wan Wei high tech materials Co., Ltd” as was 
also approved by the first extraordinary general meeting of shareholders of 2015.’ ( 33 ). Furthermore, Wan Wei is 
subject to party building activities: ‘Regarding the construction of the party's work style and clean government in 
the next stage, Wu Shangyi, the person in charge of the Discipline Inspection Committee of the joint-stock 
company, pointed out that one must accurately grasp the situation of the construction of the party’s work 
style, […] focus on the current central work of Anhui's reform and development, with style construction as 
the main line, and further create a clean and upright corporate environment to provide a strong disciplinary 
guarantee for the high-quality development of the group company. Tang Xiaohong, deputy secretary of the 
Discipline Inspection Commission of the group company, put forward: […] solidly promote the implementation 
of the party style and clean government […]’ ( 34 ). 
(139) Sinopec, another company sampled in the investigation is also an SOE and underlines it’s adherence to the party 
principles in numerous instances. According to the Sinopec website: ‘In 2018, the company adhered to the 
guidance of Xi Jinping's new era socialist ideology with Chinese characteristics and the spirit of the 19th 
National Congress of the Party, fully implemented the general requirements for party building in the new era, 
closely focused on the strategic deployment of building a world-class enterprise, and led by political construction, 
vigorously strengthen the capacity building of the party committees of directly-owned enterprises to manage the 
overall situation, vigorously implement the grassroots party organization organizational improvement project, 
vigorously enhance the vitality of team officers and entrepreneurship, coordinate and strengthen all party 
construction work, and continuously improve the quality of party construction to provide a strong guarantee 
for building Sinopec into a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness. Adhere to study, propaganda and 
implementation of Xi Jinping's new era of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the spirit of the 19th National 
Congress of the Communist Party as the primary political task, and adopt a variety of methods such as touring, 
special training, and themed Party Day to promote learning, thinking, and practice. Unity, education and guidance 
of party members and cadres continue to strengthen the consciousness and consciousness of resolutely achieving 
“two safeguards,” and practice loyalty to the party with practical actions ( 35 ).’ 
(140) Inner Mongolia Shuangxin lists on its website party building activities in the following way: ‘The company 
established a party branch in 2005. In May 2012, the organization Department of the Otog Banner Committee 
of the Chinese Communist Party formally approved our company to establish the Party Committee of Inner 
Mongolia Shuangxin Resources Holdings Co., Ltd and convened its first party member congress. Related 
subsidiaries have set up a second-level party committee (with 5 party branches under their jurisdiction), 
2 general party branches (with 3 party branches under their jurisdiction), and 3 party branches ( 36 )’. 
(141) The State’s presence and intervention in the financial markets (see also section 3.1.1.8 below) as well as in the 
provision of raw materials and inputs further have an additional distorting effect on the market ( 37 ). Thus, the State 
presence in firms, including SOEs, in the PVA and other related sectors (such as the financial and input sectors 
further discussed in Section 3.1.1.7 below) allow the GOC to interfere with respect to prices and costs.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/19 
( 31 ) Report – Chapter 2, p. 31-2. 
( 32 ) Available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-congress-companies-idUSKCN1B40JU (last viewed 15 July 2019). 
( 33 ) See http://file.finance.sina.com.cn/211.154.219.97:9494/MRGG/CNSESH_STOCK/2018/2018-4/2018-04-03/4189060.PDF, 
page 138. 
( 34 ) See http://www.wwgf.com.cn/Home/Article/show/id/3038.html 
( 35 ) See http://www.sinopecgroup.com/group/gsjs/ddjs 
( 36 ) http://www.shuangxinpva.com/dangqunjianshe/ 
( 37 ) Report – Chapters 14.1 to 14.3.
 
3.1.1.5. S i g n i f i c a n t d i s t o r t i o n s a c c o r d i n g t o A r t i c l e 2 ( 6 a ) ( b ) , t h i r d i n d e n t o f t h e 
b a s i c R e g u l a t i o n : p u b l i c p o l i c i e s o r m e a s u r e s d i s c r i m i n a t i n g i n f a v o u r o f 
d o m e s t i c s u p p l i e r s o r o t h e r w i s e i n f l u e n c i n g f r e e m a r k e t f o r c e s 
(142) The direction of the Chinese economy is to a significant degree determined by an elaborate system of planning 
which sets out priorities and prescribes the goals the central and local governments must focus on. Relevant plans 
exist on all levels of government and cover virtually all economic sectors. The objectives set by the planning 
instruments are of binding nature and the authorities at each administrative level monitor the implementation of 
the plans by the corresponding lower level of government. Overall, the system of planning in the PRC results in 
resources being driven to sectors designated as strategic or otherwise politically important by the government, 
rather than being allocated in line with market forces ( 38 ). 
(143) The PVA industry is regarded as an important industry by the GOC. This is confirmed in the numerous plans, 
directives and other documents focused on the chemical sector and PVA in particular, which are issued at national, 
regional and municipal level, including the documents listed in the following recitals. 
(144) PVA is mentioned in the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) Decision on the provisions 
amending the ‘Guiding Catalogue for Industry Restructuring (2011 edition) ( 39 ) (applicable during the IP). PVA 
appears in the chapter on encouraged sectors: ‘19-Light industry: 14: New packaging materials such as vacuum 
coated aluminium, silicon oxide spray, PVA coating-type film, Functional polyester (PET) film, oriented 
polystyrene (OPS) film, paper-plastic based multilayer extrusions or compounds.’, furthermore, it is listed in the 
chapter on restricted sectors: ‘Textile: 13: Adopting polyvinyl alcohol slurry (PVA) sizing technology and products 
(polyester and cotton products, except high-count high-density products of pure cotton)’ as well as in the chapter 
on eliminated sectors/ obsolete products: ‘Polyvinyl alcohol and its acetals for interior and exterior walls (106, 107 
coatings, etc.)’. Those instances show that GOC is steering the PVA industry and the use of PVA in different 
sectors. 
(145) The Guiding Catalogue was in the meantime updated and the new version, in force as from 1 January 2020 ( 40 ) In 
this new version, PVA appears also as an encouraged sector: ‘Light industry 11: New packaging materials such as 
vacuum coated aluminium, silicon oxide spray, PVA coating-type film plastic based multilayer extrusions or 
compounds.’. For the restricted and eliminated industries the new version of the Guiding Catalogue is identical 
with the version described in recital (144) above. 
(146) Inner Mongolia Wuhai and surroundings’ industry transformation and upgrading plan 2016-2020 ( 41 ) mentions 
PVA in section IV.2: ‘fine Chemicals: -Give full play to the advantages of basic chemical industries such as chlor- 
alkali, coking and organic silicon, -promote horizontal connections between industries and extend the industrial 
chain vertically,-vigorously develop deep-processed products such as 1,4-butanediol, PVA, -foster products such as 
medicines, pesticides, and synthetic dyes, organic pigments, paints, functional polymer materials, -create a fine 
chemical industry cluster -develop a new pillar industry.’ as well as section VII.2: ‘[a]ctively support enterprises to 
develop international production capacity cooperation, -Encourage specific competitive products such as cement, 
coking, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, technologies as well as equipment so as to bring them to 
“go out”,-explore and develop international markets.’ 
(147) Upon disclosure, one interested party, namely Wacker, submitted that PVA is not an encouraged industry and 
emphasized that the Commission itself mentions in its respective second findings of recitals (144) and (145) that 
PVA is listed in the chapter of restricted industries. On this basis, Wacker submits that Chinese PVA industries 
cannot benefit from any supposed subsidies or support available only to encouraged industries. Consequently, in 
Wacker’s view, the Commission’s assessment lacks factual evidence.
EN 
L 315/20 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 38 ) Report – Chapter 4, p. 41-42, 83. 
( 39 ) See www.gov.cn/gongbao/content/2013/content_2404709.htm 
( 40 ) See http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2019-11/06/5449193/files/26c9d25f713f4ed5b8dc51ae40ef37af.pdf 
( 41 ) See http://fgw.nmg.gov.cn/fggz/fzgh/202001/t20200110_153847.html
 
(148) However, Wacker’s arguments must be rejected. The relevant analysis under the third indent of Article 2(6a)(b) of 
the basic Regulation does not assess whether the domestic producers of the like product receive government 
support. Instead, the analysis looks into the question whether public policies or measures discriminating in favour 
of domestic suppliers or otherwise influencing free market forces exist. In this respect, listing PVA among the 
restricted industries demonstrates the prevalence of such public policies in the same manner as listing it among 
encouraged industries since the very existence of such catalogues clearly demonstrates GOC’s interference with 
market forces. It is for this reason that the Commission noted in recital (144) in fine that GOC is steering the PVA 
industry since steering, far from being limited to support, may entail a wide array of measures, including 
restrictions. 
(149) The GOC further guides the development of the sector in accordance with a broad range of tools, for example by 
providing subsidies. The annual report of Wan Wei Group lists a number of subsidies devoted to PVA: the 2016 
annual report lists -PVA project technical reform funds of RMB 8,6 million ( 42 ), the annual report of 2017 lists: 
‘PVA Project Technological Reform allocation: RMB 7,666 million, discount on loans for technical renovation of 
PVA materials for waste molasses production RMB 2,819 million ( 43 )’ as well as ‘PVA project technological trans­
formation allocation RMB 958 333’ ( 44 ). In 2018 the company received RMB 5,7 million for PVA Project Tech­
nological Reform allocation and RMB 2,8 million interest discount on PVA technological transformation 
projects ( 45 ). The 2019 annual report lists an allocation of RMB 0,958 million for PVA Project Technological 
Reform ( 46 ). 
(150) There are also a number of distortions in the main raw materials to produce PVA, such as coal, gas, calcium 
carbide, acetic acid and limestone. Coal is subject to different plans and other documents, such as the 13 th five year 
plan (FYP) for Mineral Resources on the national level as well as to plans on the local level, such as the Hebei 
province Coal industry development plan ( 47 ). The coal industry is a substantial subsidy receiver in China which 
lead to overcapacity and price distortions ( 48 ). Natural gas is also subject to a number of plans, including the 13th 
FYP for Mineral Resources on the national level, but also to plans on the local level, such as the Hebei Province 
Natural Gas Development Plan. Calcium carbide production is subject to a preferential electricity rate in some 
provinces such as Chongqing and Shaangxi ( 49 ). It is also subject to the 13th FYP for the Petrochemical and 
Chemical Industry. Acetic acid is subject to NDRC’s Catalogue for Guiding Industrial Restructuring, prescribing 
detailed rules for different industries. Acetic acid is included in the restricted list for petrochemicals: ‘caprolactam or 
ethylene acetic acid with an annual output of less than 100 000 tonnes, acetic acid by oxo synthesis or methanol 
by natural gas with an annual output of less than 300 000 tonnes’ ( 50 ). Through these and other means, the raw 
materials used to produce PVA are subject to governmental intervention. 
(151) In sum, the GOC has measures in place to induce operators to comply with the public policy objectives of 
supporting encouraged industries. Such measures impede market forces from operating normally. 
3.1.1.6. S i g n i f i c a n t d i s t o r t i o n s a c c o r d i n g t o A r t i c l e 2 ( 6 a ) ( b ) , f o u r t h i n d e n t o f t h e 
b a s i c 
R e g u l a t i o n : 
t h e 
l a c k , 
d i s c r i m i n a t o r y 
a p p l i c a t i o n 
o r 
i n a d e q u a t e 
e n f o r c e m e n t o f b a n k r u p t c y , c o r p o r a t e o r p r o p e r t y l a w s 
(152) According to the information on file, the Chinese bankruptcy system delivers inadequately on its own main 
objectives such as to fairly settle claims and debts and to safeguard the lawful rights and interests of creditors 
and debtors. This appears to be rooted in the fact that while the Chinese bankruptcy law formally rests on 
principles that are similar to those applied in corresponding laws in countries other than the PRC, the Chinese 
system is characterised by systematic under-enforcement. The number of bankruptcies remains notoriously low
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/21 
( 42 ) See http://file.finance.sina.com.cn/211.154.219.97:9494/MRGG/CNSESH_STOCK/2017/2017-4/2017-04-12/3210569.PDF 
page 127. 
( 43 ) See http://file.finance.sina.com.cn/211.154.219.97:9494/MRGG/CNSESH_STOCK/2018/2018-4/2018-04-03/4189060.PDF 
page 152. 
( 44 ) Ibid. page 167. 
( 45 ) See 2018 annual report, pages 156-157, http://q.stock.sohu.com/newpdf/201934709238.pdf 
( 46 ) See 2019 annual report, page 154, http://www.sse.com.cn/disclosure/listedinfo/announcement/c/2020-04-10/600063_20200410_ 
2.pdf 
( 47 ) See Report, page 46. 
( 48 ) See Report, pages 232-233. 
( 49 ) See Report, pages 224 and 231. 
( 50 ) See Report, page 177.
 
in relation to the size of the country’s economy, not least because the insolvency proceedings suffer from a 
number of shortcomings, which effectively function as a disincentive for bankruptcy filings. Moreover, the role of 
the State in the insolvency proceedings remains strong and active, often having direct influence on the outcome of 
the proceedings ( 51 ). 
(153) In addition, the shortcomings of the system of property rights are particularly obvious in relation to ownership of 
land and land-use rights in the PRC ( 52 ). All land is owned by the Chinese State (collectively owned rural land and 
State-owned urban land). Its allocation remains solely dependent on the State. There are legal provisions that aim 
at allocating land use rights in a transparent manner and at market prices, for instance by introducing bidding 
procedures. However, these provisions are regularly not respected, with certain buyers obtaining their land for free 
or below market rates ( 53 ). Moreover, authorities often pursue specific political goals including the implementation 
of the economic plans when allocating land ( 54 ). 
(154) Much like other sectors in the Chinese economy, the producers of PVA are subject to the ordinary rules on Chinese 
bankruptcy, corporate, and property laws. That has the effect that these companies, too, are subject to the top- 
down distortions arising from the discriminatory application or inadequate enforcement of bankruptcy and 
property laws. The present investigation revealed nothing that would call those findings into question. As such, 
the Commission preliminarily concluded that the Chinese bankruptcy and property laws do not work properly, 
thus generating distortions when maintaining insolvent firms afloat and when allocating land use rights in the PRC. 
Those considerations, on the basis of the evidence available, appear to be fully applicable also in the PVA sector. 
(155) In light of the above, the Commission concluded that there was discriminatory application or inadequate 
enforcement of bankruptcy and property laws in the PVA sector, including with respect to the product concerned. 
3.1.1.7. S i g n i f i c a n t d i s t o r t i o n s a c c o r d i n g t o A r t i c l e 2 ( 6 a ) ( b ) , f i f t h i n d e n t o f t h e 
b a s i c R e g u l a t i o n : w a g e c o s t s b e i n g d i s t o r t e d 
(156) A system of market-based wages cannot fully develop in the PRC as workers and employers are impeded in their 
rights to collective organisation. The PRC has not ratified a number of essential conventions of the International 
Labour Organisation (‘ILO’), in particular those on freedom of association and on collective bargaining ( 55 ). Under 
national law, only one trade union organisation is active. However, this organisation lacks independence from the 
State authorities and its engagement in collective bargaining and protection of workers’ rights remains rudimen­
tary ( 56 ). Moreover, the mobility of the Chinese workforce is restricted by the household registration system, which 
limits access to the full range of social security and other benefits to local residents of a given administrative area. 
This typically results in workers who are not in possession of the local residence registration finding themselves in 
a vulnerable employment position and receiving lower income than the holders of the residence registration ( 57 ). 
Those findings lead to the distortion of wage costs in the PRC. 
(157) No evidence was submitted to the effect that the PVA sector, would not be subject to the Chinese labour law 
system described. PVA sector is thus affected by the distortions of wage costs both directly (when making the 
product concerned or the main raw material for its production) as well as indirectly (when having access to capital 
or inputs from companies subject to the same labour system in the PRC). 
3.1.1.8. S i g n i f i c a n t d i s t o r t i o n s a c c o r d i n g t o A r t i c l e 2 ( 6 a ) ( b ) , s i x t h i n d e n t o f t h e 
b a s i c 
R e g u l a t i o n : 
a c c e s s 
t o 
f i n a n c e 
g r a n t e d 
b y 
i n s t i t u t i o n s 
w h i c h 
i m p l e m e n t p u b l i c p o l i c y o b j e c t i v e s o r o t h e r w i s e n o t a c t i n g i n d e p e n d e n t l y 
o f t h e S t a t e 
(158) Access to capital for corporate actors in the PRC is subject to various distortions.
EN 
L 315/22 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 51 ) Report – Chapter 6, p. 138-149. 
( 52 ) Report – Chapter 9, p. 216. 
( 53 ) Report – Chapter 9, p. 213-215. 
( 54 ) Report – Chapter 9, p. 209-211. 
( 55 ) Report – Chapter 13, p. 332-337. 
( 56 ) Report – Chapter 13, p. 336. 
( 57 ) Report – Chapter 13, p. 337-341.
 
(159) Firstly, the Chinese financial system is characterised by the strong position of State-owned banks ( 58 ), which, when 
granting access to finance, take into consideration criteria other than the economic viability of a project. Similarly 
to non-financial SOEs, the banks remain connected to the State not only through ownership but also via personal 
relations (the top executives of large State-owned financial institutions are ultimately appointed by the CCP) ( 59 ) 
and, again just like non-financial SOEs, the banks regularly implement public policies designed by the government. 
In doing so, the banks comply with an explicit legal obligation to conduct their business in accordance with the 
needs of the national economic and social development and under the guidance of the industrial policies of the 
State ( 60 ). This is compounded by additional existing rules, which direct finances into sectors designated by the 
government as encouraged or otherwise important ( 61 ). 
(160) While it is acknowledged that various legal provisions refer to the need to respect normal banking behaviour and 
prudential rules such as the need to examine the creditworthiness of the borrower, the overwhelming evidence, 
including findings made in trade defence investigations, suggests that these provisions play only a secondary role in 
the application of the various legal instruments. 
(161) Furthermore, bond and credit ratings are often distorted for a variety of reasons including the fact that the risk 
assessment is influenced by the firm's strategic importance to the GOC and the strength of any implicit guarantee 
by the government. Estimates strongly suggest that Chinese credit ratings systematically correspond to lower 
international ratings ( 62 ). 
(162) This is compounded by additional existing rules, which direct finances into sectors designated by the government 
as encouraged or otherwise important ( 63 ). This results in a bias for lending to SOEs, large well-connected private 
firms and firms in key industrial sectors, which implies that the availability and cost of capital is not equal for all 
players on the market. 
(163) Secondly, borrowing costs have been kept artificially low to stimulate investment growth. This has led to the 
excessive use of capital investment with ever lower returns on investment. This is illustrated by the recent growth 
in corporate leverage in the state sector despite a sharp fall in profitability, which suggests that the mechanisms at 
work in the banking system do not follow normal commercial responses. 
(164) Thirdly, although nominal interest rate liberalization was achieved in October 2015, price signals are still not the 
result of free market forces, but are influenced by government induced distortions. Indeed, the share of lending at 
or below the benchmark rate still represents 45 % of all lending and recourse to targeted credit appears to have 
been stepped up, since this share has increased markedly since 2015 in spite of worsening economic conditions. 
Artificially low interest rates result in under-pricing, and consequently, the excessive utilization of capital. 
(165) Overall credit growth in the PRC indicates a worsening efficiency of capital allocation without any signs of credit 
tightening that would be expected in an undistorted market environment. As a result, non-performing loans have 
increased rapidly in recent years. Faced with a situation of increasing debt-at-risk, the GOC has opted to avoid 
defaults. Consequently, bad debt issues have been handled by rolling over debt, thus creating so called ‘zombie’ 
companies, or by transferring the ownership of the debt (e.g. via mergers or debt-to-equity swaps), without 
necessarily removing the overall debt problem or addressing its root causes. 
(166) In essence, despite the recent steps that have been taken to liberalize the market, the corporate credit system in the 
PRC is affected by significant distortions resulting from the continuing pervasive role of the state in the capital 
markets.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/23 
( 58 ) Report – Chapter 6, p. 114-117. 
( 59 ) Report – Chapter 6, p. 119. 
( 60 ) Report – Chapter 6, p. 120. 
( 61 ) Report – Chapter 6, p. 121-122, 126-128, 133-135. 
( 62 ) See IMF Working Paper ‘Resolving China’s Corporate Debt Problem’, by Wojciech Maliszewski, Serkan Arslanalp, John Caparusso, 
José Garrido, Si Guo, Joong Shik Kang, W. Raphael Lam, T. Daniel Law, Wei Liao, Nadia Rendak, Philippe Wingender, Jiangyan, 
October 2016, WP/16/203. 
( 63 ) Report – Chapter 6, p. 121-122, 126-128, 133-135.
 
(167) No evidence was submitted to the effect that the PVA sector, would be exempted from the above-described 
government intervention in the financial system. Therefore, the substantial government intervention in the 
financial system leads to the market conditions being severely affected at all levels. 
3.1.1.9. S y s t e m i c n a t u r e o f t h e d i s t o r t i o n s d e s c r i b e d 
(168) The Commission noted that the distortions described in the Report were characteristic for the Chinese economy. 
The evidence available shows that the facts and features of the Chinese system as described above in Sections 
3.1.1.1–3.1.1.5 as well as in Part A of the Report apply throughout the country and across the sectors of the 
economy. The same holds true for the description of the factors of production as set out above in Sections 
3.1.1.6–3.1.1.8 above and in Part B of the Report. 
(169) The Commission recalls that in order to produce PVA, the main raw materials are: coal, natural gas and acetic acid. 
According to evidence on the file, all the sampled exporting producers sourced all their inputs in the PRC. When 
the producers of PVA purchase/contract these inputs, the prices they pay (and which are recorded as their costs) 
are clearly exposed to the same systemic distortions mentioned before. For instance, suppliers of inputs employ 
labour that is subject to the distortions. They may borrow money that is subject to the distortions on the financial 
sector/capital allocation. In addition, they are subject to the planning system that applies across all levels of 
government and sectors. 
(170) As a consequence, not only the domestic sales prices of PVA are not appropriate for use within the meaning of 
Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, but all the input costs (including raw materials, energy, land, financing, 
labour, etc.) are also tainted because their price formation is affected by substantial government intervention, as 
described in Parts A and B of the Report. Indeed, the government interventions described in relation to the 
allocation of capital, land, labour, energy and raw materials are present throughout the PRC. This means, for 
instance, that an input produced in the PRC by combining a range of factors of production is exposed to 
significant distortions. The same applies for the input to the input and so forth. No evidence or argument to 
the contrary has been adduced by the GOC or the exporting producers in the present investigation. 
3.1.1.10. C o n c l u s i o n 
(171) The analysis set out in sections 3.1.1.2 to 3.1.1.9, which includes an examination of all the available evidence 
relating to the PRC’s intervention in its economy in general as well as in the PVA sector (including the product 
concerned) showed that prices or costs of the product concerned, including the costs of raw materials, energy and 
labour, are not the result of free market forces because they are affected by substantial government intervention 
within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation as shown by the actual or potential impact of one or 
more of the relevant elements listed therein. On that basis, and in the absence of any cooperation from the GOC, 
the Commission concluded that it is not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs to establish normal value in 
this case. 
(172) Consequently, the Commission proceeded to construct the normal value exclusively on the basis of costs of 
production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks, that is, in this case, on the basis of corresponding 
costs of production and sale in an appropriate representative country, in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the 
basic Regulation, as discussed in the following section. 
(173) In their comments on final disclosure, the GOC argued that exporting producers were not given a market 
distortion questionnaire. According to GOC, this left the exporting producers in confusion about the scope of 
market distortion issue, and what they need to submit in terms of key points to be addressed and evidence that is 
acceptable. This has adversely affected Chinese companies’ legitimate rights, and deprived them of their oppor­
tunities to defend their interests. 
(174) The Commission disagrees with this claim. The Commission first notes that on 30 July 2019 a market distortion 
questionnaire was issued to the GOC. The GOC failed to reply to it. Furthermore anti-dumping questionnaires 
intended for exporters contain Point f.4, which explains how the exporting producers could claim that they are not 
affected by significant distortions. This claim was therefore rejected.
EN 
L 315/24 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
3.1.2. Representative country 
3.1.2.1. G e n e r a l r e m a r k s 
(175) The choice of the representative country was based on the following criteria: 
— A level of economic development similar to the PRC. For this purpose, the Commission took into account 
countries with a gross national income similar to the PRC on the basis of the database of the World Bank ( 64 ); 
— Production of the product under investigation in that country ( 65 ); 
— Availability of relevant public data in that country; 
— Where there is more than one possible representative country, preference was given, where appropriate, to the 
country with an adequate level of social and environmental protection. 
(176) As explained in recitals (46) to (50) the Commission published three notes for the file ( 66 ) on the sources for the 
determination of the normal value. 
3.1.2.2. A l e v e l o f e c o n o m i c d e v e l o p m e n t s i m i l a r t o t h e P R C 
(177) In the Note of 2 October 2019, the Commission explained that the product under investigation appears to be 
produced only in Japan, Singapore, Taiwan and the USA, none of which is a country with a level of economic 
development similar to the PRC in accordance with the criteria mentioned in recital (175). 
(178) As all countries where there is PVA production have a different level of economic development than the PRC, the 
Commission considered the production of a product in the same general category and/or sector of the product 
under investigation. The Commission therefore indicated it would use production of PVB, a similar product to 
PVA, to establish an appropriate representative country for the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(179) Accordingly, in the Note of 2 October 2019, the Commission identified the following four countries where PVB 
was being produced: Brazil, Malaysia, Mexico and Thailand. These countries were regarded by the World Bank as 
countries with a similar level of economic development as the PRC, i.e. they are all classified as ‘upper-middle 
income’ countries on a gross national income (‘GNI’) basis. 
(180) Three sampled exporting producers in the PRC provided comments after the Note of 2 October 2019. They agreed 
with the assessment that all four countries identified by the Commission appear to have a similar level of 
economic development. However, in their view, Malaysia appeared to be on the higher end of the scale of 
economic development and may therefore be less representative than the three other countries. They also 
pointed out that, according to their information, PVB was not produced in Brazil, as the selected company in 
that country stopped producing PVB. Furthermore, as regards the adequacy of protection concerning level of social, 
labour and environment, these exporters expressed their reservations as regards Brazil. In their view, out of the 
countries considered, Mexico has the highest level of compliance with ILO labour standards. Therefore, they 
considered that Mexico could constitute the most appropriate representative country for the determination of 
the normal value out of those that were identified in the note of 2 October 2019. 
(181) The basic Regulation does not contain any further requirement to choose the country with the closest level of 
economic development as the export country. Therefore, the fact that a country may have a closer GNI than 
another is not a decisive factor in the selection of the appropriate representative country. As mentioned above, the 
relevant criterion in terms of economic development is the upper-middle income classification by the World Bank 
for the relevant period. This database allows the Commission to have a sufficient number of potentially suitable 
countries with a similar level of development to choose the most suitable source of undistorted costs and prices. 
As all four countries are included in the same category of the World Bank database, they are all considered to meet 
the criterion laid down in Article 2(6a)(a) first indent of the basic Regulation. Therefore, this claim was rejected.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/25 
( 64 ) World Bank Open Data – Upper Middle Income, available at https://data.worldbank.org/income-level/upper-middle-income (last 
viewed 15 July 2019). 
( 65 ) If there is no production of the product under investigation in any country with a similar level of development, production of a 
product in the same general category and/or sector of the product under review may be considered. 
( 66 ) Note of 2 October 2019, Note of 20 December 2019 and Note of 30 March 2020.
 
(182) The Commission took note that there does not seem to be production of PVB in Brazil. A more detailed analysis 
of the availability and quality of the financial data for the different companies in Brazil is carried out under 
section 3.1.2.3 below. 
(183) With regard to the claim concerning the level of social, labour and environmental protection based on 
Article 2(6a)(a) first indent of the basic Regulation, it turned out there was no need to consider the different 
levels of protection in these four countries as explained under recital (221) below. Therefore, this claim was 
dismissed. 
(184) As further explained in recitals (188) and (208), based on the comments to on the Note of 2 October 2019, 
Turkey was added to the list of potential appropriate representative countries. Turkey is regarded by the World 
Bank as a country with a similar level of economic development to the PRC. 
3.1.2.3. P r o d u c t i o n 
o f 
t h e 
p r o d u c t 
u n d e r 
i n v e s t i g a t i o n 
i n 
t h e 
r e p r e s e n t a t i v e 
c o u n t r y a n d a v a i l a b i l i t y o f t h e r e l e v a n t p u b l i c d a t a i n t h e r e p r e s e n t a t i v e 
c o u n t r y 
(a) Choice of the similar product to PVA 
(185) As explained in the recitals (177) and (178) above, the Commission informed in the note of 2 October 2019 that 
it intends to take PVB as a similar product to PVA to identify an appropriate representative country for the 
application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. Interested parties were invited to comment on the choice of 
PVB as similar product to PVA. 
(186) In its comments on the Note of 2 October 2019, the complainant argued that a distinction should be made 
between PVB film and PVB resin and it considered that PVB film cannot be used an appropriate similar product for 
the following reasons: 
— PVB film and resin are different from each other in terms of the potential applications and physical char­
acteristic. PVB film – in comparison to resin – has very specific limited number of applications. 
— Due to the fragile nature of the product, the PVB film plants are usually located in close proximity to the end 
users in order to minimize the costs of sales and risks related to transportation. PVB resin, on the other hand, 
has much wider portfolio of applications and can be traded and transported globally for many various 
purposes. 
— As PVB film is traded differently than PVA and PVB resin, the cost structures of PVB film producers are also 
different. 
(187) The complainant argued that Polyvinyl acetate (‘PVAc’) should be considered instead as an appropriate similar 
product based on the similarities existing in the production process of PVA and PVAc. Notably, the complainant 
claimed that as PVA, PVAc was also produced through the polymerisation of VAM. The complainant also 
considered that PVAc as a final product was similar to PVA in terms of wide range of uses and potential end- 
users and customers. 
(188) The complainant also identified a PVAc producer in Turkey, which is a country at the same level of economic 
development as the PRC. The company identified by the complainant was Organik Kimya San. ve Tic. A.Ș. 
Therefore, the complainant suggested to use Turkey as a representative country for the purpose of the normal 
value calculation. 
(189) The complainant’s claim that PVB film would not be suitable as an appropriate similar product was not supported 
by any evidence. On the contrary, the visibility of PVB film producers on the publicly available information 
platforms suggests that PVB film is not limited in its application or number of potential users. 
(190) The Commission conducted its own research, in consultation with the European Chemicals Agency (‘ECHA’). On 
this basis, the Commission found that, considering the manufacturing process, the raw materials used and cost of 
production, both PVB and PVAc could be used as appropriate similar products for PVA. The factors of production 
needed to produce both PVB and PVAc are largely the same as for PVA and, in terms of cost of manufacturing, the 
PVA falls between the PVB and PVAc.
EN 
L 315/26 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(191) Thus, the complainant’s claim that PVAc, instead of PVB, should be used as appropriate similar product for PVA 
was rejected. However, based on the reasons explained above, the Commission accepted the argument that PVAc, 
together with PVB, could be considered as a potential appropriate similar product. 
(192) In its comments to the Note of 2 October 2019, Solutia, who was also considered a user ( 67 ) importing the 
product under investigation, questioned whether the Commission considered PVB resin or PVB film as the similar 
product to PVA. 
(193) As explained in the recital (189) above, no distinction was made between PVB resin and PVB film as regards their 
suitability as an appropriate similar product. Solutia also informed the Commission that one of its affiliated 
companies in Mexico, namely Solutia Tlaxcala, S.A. de C.V was producing PVB film and its other affiliated 
company in Malaysia, Flexsys Chemical (M) SDN BHD, is producing PVB resin. The situation of these two 
companies was addressed in recitals (199) and (200) below. 
(b) Production of the similar product to product under investigation in the representative country and availability 
of the relevant public data in the representative country 
(194) In the Note of 2 October 2019 the Commission indicated that for the countries identified as countries where PVB 
was produced, i.e. Brazil, Malaysia, Mexico and Thailand, the availability of public data needed to be further verified 
in particular as far as public financial data from a producer of the similar product is concerned. 
(195) In addition to the companies identified in the Note of 2 October 2019, based on the conclusion under point (a) 
above, the Commission undertook further research for companies producing PVAc in the countries considered. It 
found one additional company in Turkey and one in Mexico, as informed to parties in the Note of 20 December 
2019. 
(196) As mentioned above under point (a), the Commission also analysed the information submitted by the complainant 
on an additional Turkish company, and the information submitted by an importer on two additional companies in 
Mexico and Malaysia. 
(197) With regard to Brazil, an importer and user of the product under investigation informed the Commission that one 
of the companies that were identified in the note of 2 October 2019 as a PVB producer in Brazil, namely Solutia 
Brasil Ltda. (Eastman Chemical company), had ceased producing PVB film and was therefore not a suitable 
candidate for the determination of manufacturing overhead, SG&A and profit. This also concurred with the 
comments put forward by the exporters as discussed in section 3.1.2.2. above. 
(198) In the absence of other information on file available to the Commission on the presence of other companies 
producing PVB and/or PVAc in Brazil with publicly available financial data, the Commission concluded that Brazil 
could no longer be considered an appropriate representative country. 
(199) With regard to Malaysia, the availability of data was verified for the company identified in the note of 2 October 
2019 – namely Samchem Nusajaya Sdn Bhd – and also for the company suggested by Solutia – namely Flexsys 
Chemical (M) Sdn Bhd, also producing PVB. The publicly available financial data for both Samchem Nusajaya Sdn 
Bhd. and Flexsys Chemical (M) Sdn Bhd dated back from 2017 and, as a consequence, could not be considered 
suitable for the investigation period, when more recent data was available for other producers. Therefore, the 
Commission concluded that Malaysia was not suitable to be considered as an appropriate representative country 
for this investigation. This conclusion was further reinforced by the analysis of imports into Malaysia, discussed in 
recital (203). 
(200) With regard to Mexico, the Commission also analysed the availability of the financial data for the company 
producing PVB suggested by Solutia, namely Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V., as well as for the company that the 
Commission found on basis of its own research namely Wyn De Mexico Productos Quimicos S.A. de C.V. 
(201) As regards the financial statements for 2018 of Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V., the interested party submitted full 
financial statements as certified by the auditors in a ‘sensitive’ version only. This party also stated that this 
comprehensive set of the financial statements submitted to the Commission were not publicly available. The 
Commission therefore concluded that it could not use the data of this company in the proceeding.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/27 
( 67 ) Solutia is producing PVA in the Union and also purchasing PVA from the Union, Chinese and other third country producers.
 
(202) As regards Wyn De Mexico Productos Quimicos S.A. de C.V., the latest publicly available financial data was only 
available for the first six months of 2018 and therefore it could not be considered. As a result, the Commission 
concluded that Mexico could not be considered as an appropriate representative country for this investigation. 
(203) With regard to Thailand, the data available for Sekisui S-Lec Co Ltd was from 2018, and because there was a 
partial overlap with the investigation period it could be considered suitable in principle. This company was 
profitable in 2018. However, in the note of 20 December 2019, the Commission also analysed the imports of 
the main factors of production into Turkey, Mexico, Thailand and Malaysia. The analysis of import data showed 
that the imports into Thailand and Malaysia of the major factors of production were affected by imports from the 
PRC, and therefore neither Thailand nor Malaysia could be considered as a suitable representative country. The 
same analysis also showed that Turkey and Mexico could be used as an appropriate representative country as their 
imports of the main factors of production were not materially affected by imports from the PRC or any of the 
countries listed in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 68 ). 
(204) Further to the information submitted by the complainant on the Turkish company Organik Kimya San. Ve Tic. 
A.S., the Commission also analysed the situation with regard to Turkey by verifying the availability of data for this 
company, which was not covered in the Note of 2 October 2019. This company is a producer of PVAc, which was 
considered as an appropriate similar product to PVA as explained in the point (a) above. The last financial data 
available for this company was from 2018. The company was profitable. However, it was found that the publicly 
available data of this company in the Orbis database did not contain the appropriate data for cost of goods sold 
and SG&A. Therefore, the Commission concluded that the data of this company could not be used for the 
investigation unless this data became available. 
(205) The Commission also researched other potential producers of PVB and/or PVAc in Turkey. Another Turkish 
company, Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S., was found to be producing PVAc adhesives. The last financial data 
available for this company was from 2018 and the company was profitable at the level of operating profits. 
However, the financial expenses of 2018 were extraordinary high and therefore made the company loss-making in 
that year. The Commission compared the financial data for that company with the previous years where there was 
no such extraordinary situation and concluded that the financial expenses for 2018 should indeed be considered 
extraordinary and appropriately adjusted. Therefore, the Commission concluded that, after the appropriate 
adjustment to the extraordinary financial expenses, the data of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. could be considered 
as suitable for this investigation. This conclusion was communicated to interested parties in the Note of 30 March 
2020. The Commission received comments from three traders of the product under investigation. These comments 
are addressed in the recitals (219) and (220) below. 
(206) In light of the above considerations, the Commission informed the interested parties with the Note of 
20 December 2019 that it intends to use Turkey as an appropriate representative country and the Turkish 
company Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S, in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a), first ident of the basic Regulation 
in order to source undistorted prices or benchmarks for the calculation of normal value. 
(207) Interested parties were invited to comment on the appropriateness of Turkey as a representative country and of 
Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S, and – in case its financial data would become available – Organik Kimya San. Ve 
Tic. A.S, as producers in the representative country. 
(208) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, one sampled exporting producer argued that, unlike Mexico, Turkey 
was not mentioned in the Note of 2 October 2019 on the sources for the determination of the normal value. 
(209) The initial selection of potential representative countries and of suitable companies with publicly available data 
does not prevent the Commission from the possibility to supplement or refine such selection and its research at a 
later stage, including by putting forward new suggestions in terms of potential representative country and similar 
product. Indeed it is the very purpose of the Notes on factors of production, to invite interested parties
EN 
L 315/28 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 68 ) Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on common rules for imports from 
certain third countries (OJ L 123, 19.5.2015, p. 33).
 
to comment on the Commission services’ preliminary research and, if warranted, to receive alternatives for the 
Commission services’ further consideration. The Notes even contain a specific annex to guide parties in submitting 
information on possible additional representative countries and/or companies for the purpose of Article 2(6a)(a) of 
the basic Regulation. Following the comment by the complainant related to Turkey and another potential similar 
product – PVAc – the Commission performed additional research in collaboration with ECHA as mentioned in the 
recitals (204) to (206) above. This research demonstrated that both PVAc and PVB could equally well be 
considered as similar products to PVA. The additional research also confirmed that PVAc was produced in 
Turkey. On this basis the Commission added Turkey to the list of potential representative countries and designated 
PVAc as a similar product. Therefore, the claim that Turkey could not be regarded as a representative country since 
it was not mentioned in in the Note of 2 October 2019 is rejected. 
(210) The same exporting producer claimed that Mexico would constitute a more appropriate representative country due 
to, inter alia, the availability of data for coal and natural gas. Further, this exporting producer also claimed that for 
a number of major input factors, there were substantial Chinese exports into Turkey while the Mexican import 
data shows substantial purchases from the USA. The exporting producer also argued that the volume of imports of 
other factors of production into Turkey was limited when compared to the volume of imports into Mexico. Based 
on these considerations, this exporting producer expressed the view that the data from Wyn De Mexico Productos 
Quimicos S.A. de C.V. should be used even if it was only available for the first six months of 2018. 
(211) The situation of Chinese imports of the main factors of production into Turkey, compared with the respective 
imports into Mexico was further analysed in the Note of 30 March 2020. This analysis, in line with the analysis 
made in the Note of 20 December 2019, mentioned in the recital (203), confirmed that the level of Chinese 
imports to Turkey of the main factors of production used by the sampled cooperating exporting producers not 
affected by PRC imports were representative. Therefore, the imports from PRC to Turkey were not such that it 
would render Turkey inappropriate as a representative country under Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. 
Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(212) The Commission also clarified in the Note of 30 March 2020 that no updated financial data had become available 
for any of the Mexican companies mentioned in the note of 20 December 2019. For Wyn De Mexico Productos 
Quimicos S.A. de C.Vc., the latest publicly available financial data covered only the first six months of 2018. It was 
recalled that this data has no overlap with the investigation period and also that it relates only to a period of 6 
months. Any 6 months period cannot be considered representative of a whole year, inter alia, due to potential 
seasonal fluctuations in the items of the profit and loss statement. Furthermore, a complete financial year has a 
beginning and closing date where audits are performed, appropriate accruals are recorded and necessary 
corrections are made. It is less than certain that all this would be done on the basis of a 6 months period. 
Furthermore, even if a company showed profit for a period of 6 months it does not mean that it would be 
profitable for the entire year. Indeed, the company suggested by the exporting producer was not profitable in 
2017, the latest full year available. For all these reasons the Commission did not agree with the comment made by 
this exporting producer claiming that the use of this 6 months data would yield a more accurate normal value 
than using data from Turkey. As regards the other potential company from Mexico referred to in the note of 
20 December 2019, namely Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V., the financial statements of this company were not 
publicly available. Therefore, the Commission maintained that the data available from the two Mexican companies 
could not be considered suitable. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(213) As regards the Turkish company Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S., the Commission explained in the note of 
20 December 2019 that the data could be considered as suitable for this investigation to establish the undistorted 
SG&A and profit. As explained in the recital (205) it was also noted that the financial expenses of 2018, which 
made the company loss-making in that year, should be considered extraordinary. 
(214) In line with the Commission’s observation, the same exporting producer also noted that the company Ilkalem 
Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S became loss making due to financial items. This party further claimed that the financial 
information available for this company did not allow breakdown between overhead and SG&A expenses.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/29
 
(215) As regards the overheads and SG&A expenses, it should be noted that the source for the former is normally not 
based on the company in the representative country. Furthermore, contrary to what was claimed by the interested 
party, the SG&A of the Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. were in fact disclosed in its publicly available financial 
information in Orbis database. It should also be noted that the publicly available data for this company is generally 
on the same level of detail as any publicly available financial data normally used by the Commission in these 
investigations. Therefore, the level of detail currently available for this company contains all the necessary 
information and does not make the company unsuitable for this investigation. As regards the financial items, 
the Commission notes that the abnormal level of these items in the profit and loss statement of 2018 should be 
considered extraordinary as explained in recital (205) above. Considering the above, Commission maintained that 
the data of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. can be considered suitable after making appropriate adjustments for the 
extraordinary financial items as explained in the recital (307). Therefore, these claims were rejected. 
(216) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, three traders of the product under investigation claimed that the 
company Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. is not suitable since the company is not specialised in PVAc production 
but that this product represents only a limited part of its total product portfolio. These parties claimed that 
manufacturing overhead cost, SG&A and profits of this company are not apportioned only to PVAc production 
and that the ‘factors of production, electricity as well as manufacturing overhead costs, SG&A and profits for PVAc 
are heavily affected by the overall production and sale activity’ and that cost of production varies for each category 
of products. Notably these parties claimed that cost of sales of non-PVAc products and their after sales assistance 
are much higher than for PVAc products. Furthermore, these parties claimed that in absence of analytic accounting 
for PVAc cost of production and profit, Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. may not be considered as a reliable source 
of data. 
(217) The claim that the cost of sales of non-PVAc products and their after sales assistance are much higher than for 
PVAc products was not substantiated by any evidence. Furthermore, it is not exceptional that the companies 
considered suitable in the context of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation are producing more than one product. 
It is likewise also common that the level of detail of publicly available financial data of suitable companies in the 
representative country usually does not allow a more granular analysis of the SG&A and profit at the level of 
individual products. It is also recalled that as regards cost of production, factors of production, and electricity, the 
choice of any individual company has no relevance to the outcome since this data is retrieved from other sources, 
namely statistical import data or domestic data of the representative country, as well as data from exporting 
producers. Therefore, these claims were rejected. 
(218) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, the complainant argued that the financial data of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve 
Sanayi A.S was affected for the 2018 by extraordinary events, namely the currency fluctuation due to political 
developments in Turkey and the expansion of the company’s capacity. The complainant therefore suggested that 
the financial data for this company for 2018 could be used, ‘but other than profit before tax’. However, 
complainant did not further substantiate these possible reasons for the abnormal financial expenses in 2018, 
neither did it contest the approach suggested by the Commission, which is making an appropriate adjustment for 
the extraordinary amounts of financial expenses in 2018. Therefore, the Commission in the Note of 30 March 
2020 informed that it intends to maintain the approach suggested in the note of 20 December 2019, i.e. using the 
data of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. adjusted for the extraordinary financial expenses. 
(219) Following the note of 30 March 2020 the Commission received repeated comments from three traders of the 
product under investigation. These parties reiterated their claim that Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. is a non-suitable 
company because its cost of sales of non-PVAc products and after sale assistance are much higher than for PVAc 
products. These parties made reference to Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. website claiming that its portfolio of 
products shows that the core business is formed by non-PVAc product lines and that PVAc is a side business only. 
Further, these parties claimed that the non-PVAc sectors require more resources for research and development and 
technical assistance as well as investments and sales organisation and after sale assistance and claimed that profit in 
these non-PVAc sectors are ‘usually quite high’. These interested parties did not however provide any additional 
evidence substantiating their claim. Therefore, these claims are rejected as already explained in the recital (217) 
above.
EN 
L 315/30 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(220) Following the note of 30 March 2020, the same parties also repeatedly reiterated their claim that accounting data 
of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. are not suitable since PVAc production represent only a limited part of its total 
product portfolio and manufacturing, overhead cost, SG&A and profits of this company are not apportioned only 
to PVAc production. These parties further suggested that Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S.’s financial data are 
unsuitable for determining costs, SG&A and profits, unless the company supplies to the Commission financial 
data limited to the PVAc product line. As already explained in the recital (217), granular analysis of the SG&A and 
profits at the level of individual products is usually not possible and not necessary for a company to be considered 
suitable in the context of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
3.1.2.4. L e v e l o f s o c i a l a n d e n v i r o n m e n t a l p r o t e c t i o n 
(221) Having established that Turkey was the only available appropriate representative country, based on all of the above 
elements, there was no need to carry out an assessment of the level of social and environmental protection in 
accordance with the last sentence of Article 2(6a)(a) first indent of the basic Regulation. 
3.1.2.5. C o n c l u s i o n 
(222) In view of the above analysis, Turkey met the criteria laid down in Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic 
Regulation in order to be considered as an appropriate representative country. 
(223) In their comments on final disclosure, one sampled exporting producer referred to its comments on the Note of 
20 December 2019, where it disagreed with the choice of Turkey as the appropriate representative country. 
(224) The Commission noted that these comments were addressed in the Note of 30 March 2020 (as well as in 
section 3.1.2.3 above) and that the exporting producer did not submit any further comments in response to 
that Note. As those claims had already been replied to and the exporting producer did not present any new 
argument or evidence, they were rejected. 
(225) In their comments on final disclosure, one user and one union producer / user disagreed with the choice of Turkey 
as representative country, arguing that it did not respect labour conventions and standards nor complied with 
climate and environmental rules. The user further disagreed with the use of data of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. 
since, PVAc production represented only a limited part of its business. Consequently, according to the user, the 
company’s costs, overheads, SG&A and profit for PVAc were affected by its overall production and sales activity. 
The user argued that, by using the Turkish producer’s SG&A costs and profit, the Commission inflated the normal 
value. The user asked the Commission to adapt the constructed normal value accordingly. 
(226) The Commission disagreed with these claims. At the outset, the Commission noted that neither of these arguments 
were put forward by the user in response to the Notes of 2 October 2019, 20 December 2019 and 30 March 
2020, where the Commission explicitly requested such comments, subject to deadlines. The Commission then 
pointed out that, according to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, preference must be given, where appropriate, 
to countries with an adequate level of social and environmental protection, where there is more than one potential 
representative country to choose from. As mentioned in recital (221), having established that Turkey was the only 
available appropriate representative country in this case, there was no need to carry out an assessment of the level 
of social and environmental protection. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(227) As far as the choice of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. is concerned, the Commission first noted that, other than 
SG&A, it did not use the company’s cots and overheads. As far as SG&A and profit go, the user presented no 
evidence on why these would be inflated by using the Turkish producer’s company-wide figures. Furthermore, the 
user noted the Commission explanation in recital (220) that granular analysis of the SG&A and profits at the level 
of individual products is usually not possible and not necessary for a company to be considered suitable in the 
context of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. The user opposed this argument by claiming that there is no 
need to bring detailed evidence substantiating that a company whose PVAc production is only a by-product has a 
significantly different cost structure and profit margin than a company whose primary focus is the production of 
PVA. On this point, the Commission noted that claims should generally be supported by valid evidence, however 
detailed. Furthermore, the SG&A and profits, reported by the sampled exporting producers were not inconsistent 
with what was reported by the producer in the representative country. These claims were therefore rejected.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/31
 
(228) In their comment on final disclosure, one Union producer / user argued that the data in Turkey was not publicly 
available as it has to be purchased from, for instance, Global Trade Atlas (‘GTA’). The Commission noted that, 
According to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the data does not have to be ‘publicly available’ but ‘readily 
available’. The Commission noted that ‘publicly available’ means available to the public at large whereas ‘readily 
available’ means available to everybody, provided that certain conditions, like a payment of a fee, have been 
fulfilled. Important to mention that all the information used to construct the normal value was made available on 
the open file. That means that even when the information is only available upon payment, all interested parties had 
access to it. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(229) In their comments on final disclosure, two sampled exporting producers argued that the financial data for Solutia 
Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V. were readily available within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation and thus 
the Commission was wrong to dismiss Mexico as a potential appropriate representative country. As mentioned in 
recital (201), the financial data for Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V. were submitted to the Commission by Solutia only 
in ‘sensitive’ version because, as explained by the user, the data were not publicly available. According to the 
sampled exporting producers there is a difference between ‘readily available’ within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) 
of the basic Regulation and ‘publicly available’. The sampled exporting producers argued that ‘publicly available’ 
means available to the public at large whereas ‘readily available’ means available to everybody, provided that certain 
conditions, like a payment of a fee, have been fulfilled. The sampled exporting producers then argued that, since 
the data for Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V. was allegedly available on Dun&Bradstreet database ( 69 ) for a fee, this data 
were readily available within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. 
(230) The Commission disagreed with this claim. At the outset, the Commission noted that none of these arguments 
were put forward by the sampled exporting producers in response to the Notes of 20 December 2019 and of 
30 March 2020, despite being explicitly requested subject to deadlines. The Commission then explained that it did 
not consider the financial data of Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V. as not readily available because Solutia requested 
confidentiality and confirmed that this data was not publicly available. The Commission considered the data as not 
readily available because it was unable to find it in the services it has access to for this purpose. Furthermore, none 
other interested party, including the sampled exporting producers, submitted this data in a non-confidential form, 
despite being explicitly requested to do so in the Notes of 2 October 2019, 20 December 2019 and 30 March 
2020. Finally, the Commission noted that even in their comments on final disclosure, the exporting producers did 
not submit allegedly readily available data of Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V. They merely pointed to a paid database 
that allegedly holds that data and later called it ‘prima facie evidence that the financial data of Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. 
de C.V. can readily be obtained from other sources’. The Commission is unable to use data that it has no access to 
or that has not been submitted by any of the interested parties in a non-confidential form. Furthermore, without 
being able to cross-check whether the allegedly readily available data contain necessary figures or that these figures 
correspond to those in the data submitted by Solutia in confidence, the Commission was unable to use the latter 
for the purpose of Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. A mere prima facie evidence of the availability of Solutia’s 
data, as put by the exporting producers, is insufficient for that purpose. The Commission finally noted that all the 
information used to construct the normal value, when not widely available, has to be made available to all 
interested parties in the open file. To this end, the Commission ensures that even when it take recourse to 
paid data, it is contractually allowed to share the relevant information used in the investigation with interested 
parties. These claims were therefore rejected. 
(231) In their comments on final disclosure, the same sampled exporting producers argued that Mexico was the most 
appropriate representative country for the normal value determination since: (i) it has a level of economic 
development similar to the PRC; (ii) it has an established PVB production; (iii) the relevant data are readily 
available by virtue of the financial statements of Solutia Tlaxcala S.A. de C.V.; and (iv) Mexico has a higher 
level of social and environmental protection than Turkey. 
(232) The Commission disagreed with this assessment. The Commission noted that the first two arguments are equally 
applicable to Turkey. As explained in recital (230), the third argument is factually incorrect, which renders the 
fourth argument moot. This claim was therefore rejected.
EN 
L 315/32 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 69 ) https://www.dnb.com
 
(233) In their comments on final disclosure, the same sampled exporting producers argued that, if the Commission 
insists on using the SG&A costs and profit of the producer in the representative country, it should at least consider 
the use of Mexico for the undistorted benchmarks. 
(234) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that, as explained in sections 3.1.2.2 and 
3.1.2.3 above, contrary to what is being claimed, the Commission did consider the use of Mexico as the 
appropriate representative country and dismissed it as it did not find any readily available financial data for 
PVAc or PVB producing company in that country. The Commission also noted that neither in response to the 
Notes of 2 October 2019 or 30 March 2020 nor in the comments on final disclosure, did the exporting producers 
present a valid argument why Turkey should not be used as a source for undistorted benchmarks. This claim was 
therefore rejected. 
(235) In their comments on final disclosure, the same sampled exporting producers contested the use of the data of the 
Turkish producer, Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. as the source for SG&A and profit on the basis that its reported 
financial expenses were extraordinary high and needed to be adjusted as explained in the recital (205) above. The 
exporting producers argued that, if the SG&A and profit data had to be adjusted, it cannot be considered as 
undistorted and thus cannot be used. The exporting producers went on questioning the readily available nature of 
the Turkish producer’s data, since that data had to be adjusted to be used. The exporting producers also questioned 
the reliability of readily available financial information of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. found in Orbis database 
and provided alternative financial data for this company obtained from another source – ‘EMIS’ – showing different 
profit and loss statement for the year 2018 than the one used in the dumping calculation. The exporting producers 
argued that, on these basis Turkey should have been disregarded as potential representative country, or both 
Turkey and Mexico should have been considered, as the producer in the latter country allegedly had readily 
available data. Finally, the sampled exporting producers recalled that the Commission dismissed their request 
for further breakdown of SG&A of the producer in the representative country. In this regard the exporting 
producers mentioned that it would have been useful to ask the producer in the representative country to fill in 
a detailed profit and loss table that could then be verified by the Commission. 
(236) The Commission disagreed with these claims. At the outset Commission noted that the exporting producers did 
not raise any of these issue following the publication of the Note of 30 March 2020, which outlined and explicitly 
requested, subject to a deadline, comments on now criticised approach and figures. With regards to Turkish 
company’s data being distorted, as explained in the Note of 30 March 2020, as well as in recitals (205), the 
Commission indeed considered the SG&A to contain extraordinary expenses, which should not be taken into 
account for the construction of the normal value. This is why the Commission adjusted the data by removing these 
expenses. Contrary to what was claimed by the exporting producers, the adjustment does not affect the readily 
available nature of the data. It was done solely on the basis of readily available figures and it was explained in 
detail in the Note of 30 March 2020, as well as in recital (205). These claims were therefore rejected. 
(237) With regards to contradictory data of the Turkish company in other sources, the Commission first noted that this 
data was not provided in response the Note of 30 March 2020 within the given deadline. The exporting producers 
did not specify on which basis the report provided by them was compiled, that is, whether it is based on generally 
accepted accounting principles and statutory accounts or for example a specific reporting template and different 
accounting conventions particular to EMIS. Therefore, the Commission considers that the financial data obtained 
from an established and widely used database – Orbis – remains an appropriate and reliable source for the purpose 
of this investigation. Moreover, the combined SG&A and profit obtained from the Orbis database (21,6 %) for the 
producer in the representative country is only marginally lower than the one reported in EMIS (22,4 %). Therefore, 
using the data from EMIS would in fact (marginally) increase the dumping margin for all exporting producers. 
(238) With regards to the request for further breakdown of the SG&A costs of the producer in the representative 
country, the Commission recalled its reply that such detailed data was not readily available. As to additional 
questionnaire on detailed profit and loss to be sent to the producer in the representative country and verified by 
the Commission, the basic Regulation provides that the Commission must use information which is readily 
available and does not foresee any requests to producers in the representative country. Even if it was possible 
to request and verify such information from those producers, the data collected would be business confidential 
information and therefore not readily available to interested parties. Therefore, this data was considered not be 
readily available within the meaning of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/33
 
(239) These claims were therefore rejected. 
3.1.3. Sources used to establish undistorted costs 
(240) In the Note of 2 October 2019, the Commission listed the factors of production such as materials, energy and 
labour used in the production of the product under investigation by the exporting producers and invited the 
interested parties to comment and propose publicly available information on undistorted values for each of the 
factors of production mentioned in that note. 
(241) Subsequently, in the Note of 20 December 2019, the Commission stated that, in order to construct the normal 
value in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, it would use GTA to establish the undistorted cost 
of most of the factors of production, notably the raw materials. In addition, the Commission stated that it would 
use the Turkish Statistical Institute for establishing undistorted costs of labour ( 70 ) and energy ( 71 ). Moreover, the 
Commission also informed that for the cost of water for industrial use, it would use the prices published by the 
Presidency of the Republic of Turkey Investment Office ( 72 ) based on sources from the Istanbul water and Sewerage 
administration, the Eskișehir Water and Sewerage Administration and the Antalya Water and Sewerage Adminis­
tration. 
(242) In the note of 20 December 2019, the Commission also informed the interested parties that due to the large 
number of factors of production of the sampled exporting producers that provided complete information and the 
negligible weight of some of the raw materials in the total cost of production, these negligible items were grouped 
under ‘consumables’. Further, the Commission informed that it will calculate the percentage of the consumables on 
the total cost of raw materials and apply this percentage to the recalculated cost of raw materials when using the 
established undistorted benchmarks in the appropriate representative country. 
(243) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, the Commission received comments on factors of production from one 
sampled exporting producer, the complainant and three traders of the product under investigation. 
(244) The sampled exporting producer claimed that according to GTA there were no imports of coal ( 73 ) and natural gas 
into Turkey. The party expressed reservations whether Turkish prices could be used in these circumstances as the 
absence of imports of these two inputs ‘may indicate’ that certain barriers exist on the Turkish market and prevent 
imports and ‘may therefore result in inflated/distorted prices on the Turkish domestic market’. 
(245) There are indeed no reported imports of coal under the HS classification 2701 19 and natural gas into Turkey. 
However, the claims made by the exporting producer concerning trade barriers and price distortions were not 
substantiated by any evidence. Also, the Commission examined the existence of the export restrictions and 
according to the information available to the Commission, there are no such barriers or price distortions on 
the Turkish market. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(246) After receiving the comments on the Note of 20 December 2019, the Commission however looked further into 
the types of coal used by the exporting producers in China and also requested inspection reports for these types of 
coal. The examination of these inspection reports revealed that coal initially proposed to be classified by some of 
the exporting producers under HS 2701 19, could be classified under HS 2701 12. GTA, lists import data for 
Turkey for this HS code, namely 37 113 666 tonnes during the investigation period – none of which is imported 
from the PRC. Therefore, in the note of 30 March 2020, the Commission informed the interested parties that it 
intends to use the data for HS 2701 12, as published by GTA, as benchmark for all types of coal. After the Note of 
30 March 2020, no interested parties sent any further comments as regards the use of data for HS 2701 12, as 
published by GTA, as benchmark for all type of coals.
EN 
L 315/34 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 70 ) http://www.turkstat.gov.tr => Press releases => select Labour Cost Statistics. 
( 71 ) http://www.turkstat.gov.tr => Press releases => select Electricity and Natural Gas prices. 
( 72 ) https://www.invest.gov.tr/en/investmentguide/pages/cost-of-doing-business.aspx 
( 73 ) The coal in question is according to the exporting producer in the PRC classified under HS 270 119.
 
(247) In the note of 30 March 2020, the Commission maintained that, in absence of any evidence of the alleged trade 
barriers or price distortions concerning the natural gas in Turkey, the price of gas for industrial users in Turkey as 
published by the Turkish Statistical Institute is a suitable benchmark for this investigation. Following the Note of 
30 March 2020, no interested party submitted any further comments on this point and the proposed approach. 
(248) In the Note of 20 December 2019, the Commission stated its intention to use the statistics published by the 
Turkish Statistical Institute as benchmark for labour costs in the manufacturing sector for 2016, for the economic 
activity C.23 (Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) according to NACE Rev.2 classification. In its 
reaction to this note, the complainant proposed that the economic activity category C.20 (Manufacture of 
chemicals and chemical products) would be more suitable to reflect the labour costs of PVA (chemical product) 
compared to processing of non-metallic mineral products. 
(249) The Commission examined this claim and looked into which economic category is more suitable for broader 
economic activities considering the high level of vertical integration of the Chinese producers, and the variety of 
labour involved. It was found that the economic activity category C.20 (Manufacture of chemicals and chemical 
products) would be more suitable. Therefore, the Commission used the economic activity category C.20 as 
benchmark for labour cost. 
(250) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, three traders of the product under investigation stated that they fail to 
understand why the Commission had disclosed ‘such a long list’ of raw materials among factors of production and 
claimed that some of the listed factors of production are not used in the PVA production. 
(251) This claim appears to stem from a misunderstanding about the origins of data of the factors of production 
disclosed in the notes of 2 October and 20 December 2019. As explained in the note of 2 October 2019, the 
primary source of the factors of productions was information submitted by the interested parties, notably the 
cooperating exporting producers. It is also recalled that the sampled cooperating exporting producers have different 
levels of integration and use different production processes, which explains the relatively long list of inputs for 
which there is a need to identify the corresponding undistorted costs in the representative country. Therefore, this 
claim was contradicted by the data submitted by the Chinese exporting producers and verified by the Commission, 
and thus it is rejected. 
(252) The same interested parties also requested the Commission to make available to all interested parties the specific 
production process it intends to adopt in order to assess the normal value for PVA. First, it is recalled that the 
calculation of the constructed normal value is not based on any specific production process as such, but rather on 
the value of factors of production and their actual consumption by each exporting producer based on their own 
production process. It is further recalled that the Chinese exporting producers have as part of their replies to the 
anti-dumping questionnaire explained their production process and outlined their factors of production. The non- 
confidential versions of these replies have already been available for inspection by all interested parties since 
September 2019. Therefore, this request was moot. 
(253) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, the same interested parties (three traders of the product under 
investigation) also made claims regarding factors of production, calculation of the normal value and comparison. 
These claims are addressed in recitals (264), (342) to (346) and (359) below. Following the Note of 30 March 
2020, these parties repeatedly reiterated their arguments, however without submitting any further information or 
evidence to support their claims. 
3.1.4. Undistorted costs and benchmarks 
3.1.4.1. F a c t o r s o f p r o d u c t i o n 
(254) As stated in recital (46), in the Note of 2 October 2019, the Commission sought to establish an initial list of 
factors of production and sources concerning PVA intended to be used for all factors of production such as 
materials, energy and labour used in the production of the PVA by exporting producers. 
(255) Furthermore, as stated in recital (48), in the Note of 20 December 2019, the Commission provided a revised list of 
factors of production and established the Turkish goods codes corresponding to the relevant factors of production 
in Turkey, the representative country.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/35
 
(256) The Commission did not receive any comments concerning the list of factors of production following the Note of 
2 October 2019. As explained in recital (243), one sampled exporting producer, the complainant and three traders 
of the product under investigation submitted comments following the note of 20 December 2019. As explained in 
the recitals (246) to (249) the Commission in the Note of 30 March 2019, addressed those comments and revised 
the codes for coal and labour. 
(257) The Commission did not receive any further comments concerning the list of factors of production following the 
Note of 30 March 2020. 
(258) Considering all the information submitted by the interested parties and collected during the verification visits, the 
following factors of production and HS codes, where applicable, have been identified: 
Factor of Production 
Code in the Turkish tariff classification 
Undistorted value 
Raw Materials 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
3905 30 00 0000 
16,44 CNY/kg 
Acetic acid 
2915 21 00 001 
4,85 CNY/kg or 
4 853,54 CNY/tonne 
Azodiisobutyronitrile 
(AZO) 
/ 
azobisisobutyronitrile (AZN) 
2927 00 00 00 
27,71 CNY/kg 
Calcium carbide 
2849 10 00 0000 
5,30 CNY/kg 
Carbon (activated) 
3802 10 00 0000 
14,73 CNY/kg 
Carbon (catalytic activated with zinc 
acetate) 
2915 29 00 9019 
20,44 CNY/kg 
Caustic soda / sodium hydroxide (liquid) 2815 12 00 0000 
2,46 CNY/kg 
Coal 
2701 12 
0,75 CNY/kg or 749,38 CNY/ 
tonne 
Semi-coke 
2704 00 
2,05 CNY/kg 
Electrode paste 
3801 30 00 0000 
4,81 CNY/kg 
Limestone 
2521 00 00 0000 
4,08 CNY/kg 
Methyl alcohol (methanol) 
2905 11 00 101 
2,59 CNY/kg 
Plastic-paper composite bags 
3923 29 90 0019 
41,65 CNY/kg 
Polypropylene woven container bags 
6305 33 90 0000 
32,22 CNY/kg 
Sulfuric acid (pure) 
2807 00 00 0011 
1,23 CNY/kg or 1 230,74 CNY/ 
tonne 
Vinyl acetate 
2915 32 00 0000 
7,36 CNY/kg 
Zinc acetate 
2915 29 00 9019 
20,44 CNY/kg 
Labour 
Labour costs in manufacturing sector 
NACE 20 
47,16 CNY/hour
EN 
L 315/36 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
Factor of Production 
Code in the Turkish tariff classification 
Undistorted value 
Energy 
Electricity 
Turkish Statistical Institute 
CNY/kWh (per 1 000 MWh con- 
sumption band) 
0,45 (20 ~ 70 MWh) 
0,44 (70 ~ 150 MWh) 
0,44 (> 150 MWh) 
Natural gas 
Turkish Statistical Institute 
1,63 CNY/m 3 or 
1 632,39 CNY/m 3 × 1 000 
(1) Raw materials and by-products/waste 
(259) During the verification visits, the Commission verified the raw materials used and the by-product/waste generated 
in the manufacturing of the product concerned. 
(260) For all raw materials with the exception of Oxygen and Acetaldehyde, absent any information on the market of the 
representative country, the Commission relied on import prices. An import price in the representative country was 
determined as a weighted average of unit prices of imports from all third countries excluding the PRC and 
countries which are not members of the WTO, listed in Annex 1 of Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the 
European Parliament and the Council ( 74 ). The Commission decided to exclude imports from the PRC into the 
representative country as it concluded in recitals (171) to (172) that it is not appropriate to use domestic prices 
and costs in the PRC due to the existence of significant distortions in accordance with Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic 
Regulation. Given that there is no evidence showing that the same distortions do not equally affect products 
intended for export, the Commission considered that the same distortions affected export prices. After excluding 
the PRC, the imports from other third countries remained representative ranging from 34 % ( 75 ) to 100 % of total 
volumes imported to Turkey for the factors of production listed in the table above. 
(261) As mentioned in the recital above, there were no public reference prices available for oxygen (oxygen 99,6 %, 
2,5 bar pipeline transportation) and acetaldehyde (industrial acetaldehyde). While, according to GTA, there are 
imports of oxygen into Turkey under HS code 2804 40, these are imports of oxygen in cylinders. The price of 
these imports is likely driven by the cost of transport and storage, which are not relevant when oxygen is being 
captured close to the production site and transported there by a pipeline. In that case, the costs are being driven 
primarily by the costs of the machinery and the installation. For this reason, it was considered inappropriate to use 
the GTA benchmark. As the market of oxygen delivered by pipeline is characterised by the proximity between the 
producer/seller and the customer, it is not traded on the spot market. As a consequence, there are no indicative 
prices published on the national or international trading places, thus there are no public available reference prices. 
For these reasons, it was found appropriate to include the costs of oxygen in the costs category of consumables. 
Contrary to oxygen, there were no imports of acetaldehyde (HS code 2912 12) in Turkey recorded in the GTA 
database, and in absence of any other publicly available reference prices or indicative prices of acetaldehyde in 
Turkey, it was also considered appropriate to include the costs of acetaldehyde in the costs of consumables. 
(262) A number of factors of production were mainly catalyst materials, for which the actual costs incurred by the 
cooperating exporting producers represented a negligible share of total raw material costs in the investigation 
period. As the value used for these had no significant impact on the dumping margin calculations, regardless of the 
source used, the Commission decided to include those costs into consumables as explained in the recitals (301) 
and (302).
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/37 
( 74 ) Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on common rules for imports from 
certain third countries (OJ L 123, 19.5.2015, p. 33). Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation considers that domestic prices in those 
countries cannot be used for the purpose of determining normal value and, in any event, such import data was negligible. 
( 75 ) Imports from other third countries of 34 % was related to Azodiisobutyronitrile (AZO) / azobisisobutyronitrile (AZN) which were 
factors of production having only a minor impact on the cost of manufacturing.
 
(263) In order to establish the undistorted price of raw materials delivered at the gate of the exporting producer’s factory, 
as provided by Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic Regulation, the Commission applied the import duty of the 
representative country and added domestic transport costs to the import price. The domestic transport costs for all 
raw materials as well as insurance costs were estimated based on the verified data provided by the cooperating 
exporting producers and are not included in the benchmarks mentioned in the table above. 
(264) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, three traders of the product under investigation claimed that the VAM 
cost incurred by the Chinese exporting producers is not distorted and is in line with the costs in the international 
open market. The interested parties brought elements on file to show that the VAM price in China was higher 
during the investigation period than the VAM price in Europe and Russia. The interested parties requested the 
Commission to take into account this claim when determining the normal value. The same parties also repeatedly 
reiterated to this claim following the Note of 30 March 2020 without submitting any further evidence. First, it is 
recalled that according to Article 2(6a)(a), third indent of the Basic Regulation, domestic costs can only be used to 
the extent that it is positively established that they are not distorted. The claim of these parties is based on general 
aggregate figures concerning prices of VAM in the PRC as opposed to the Union or to Russia. However, the 
investigation has not established that the VAM prices in the PRC were not distorted. Secondly, due to their 
production process, VAM is not even an important factor of production for any of the cooperating exporting 
producers. Therefore these claims are rejected. 
(265) In their comments on final disclosure, three importers reiterated their claim, which was summarised and addressed 
in recital (264) that VAM prices in the PRC are not distorted. In reiterating this argument they argued that the 
Commission ignored the evidence they submitted in support of VAM prices not being distorted, as it did not come 
from exporting producers. They pointed at the alleged contradiction where the Commission on the one hand did 
not consider VAM as major factor of production, while in the injury analysis in recital (462) the Commission refers 
to it as a major raw material. 
(266) The Commission disagreed with these claims. The Commission first reiterated its conclusion form recital (264) that 
the mere fact that Chines VAM prices are similar and sometimes higher than international VAM prices is not 
evidence of lack of distortions. As seen in recital (264), contrary what the three importers claimed, the 
Commission did not ignore this claim and the evidence that was supporting it. The Commission just considered 
that mere price level is not evidence of lack of distortion. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(267) With regards to VAM being a major factor of production, the Commission does consider it an important raw 
material for PVA production in general but a minor factor of production from the point of view of cooperating 
exporting producers. In their comments on final disclosure, the three importers noted themselves that the 
exporting producers are vertically integrated and therefore produce their own VAM. They do not purchase it in 
significant quantities and therefore it is not considered as a major factor of production for these exporting 
producers. In recital (462), the Commission refers to the Union industry which does not produce the VAM 
internally, but purchases it. As a consequence, in the latter case, the fluctuations of the prices of VAM in the 
market affect the cost of production of PVA. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(268) In their comments on the final disclosure, three sampled exporting producers, one Union producer / user and three 
importers argued that, when establishing the benchmarks for factors of production, the Commission should not 
have added import duties and domestic transport costs. In particular the three importers referred to VAM and coal. 
Furthermore, the sampled exporting producers and Union producer / user argued that the import price taken from 
the import statistic should have been brought down from CIF to EXW level, therefore costs in the country of 
origin (including additional packing expenses for certain factors of production), freight and insurance should be 
removed. This claim was motivated by the fact that all three sampled exporting producers sourced their raw 
materials locally. 
(269) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that, according to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic 
Regulation, the normal value should reflect the undistorted price of the raw materials in the representative country, 
in this case Turkey. It should therefore reflect the price that a producer of PVA would pay in Turkey for a raw 
material delivered at the factory gate. As mentioned in recital (263), the methodology applied by the Commission 
reflects this approach. If the adjustments suggested by the interested parties were made, the resulting price would 
not reflect the undistorted price on the Turkish market but the average EXW price (when sold for export) in the 
countries that sell to Turkey. This would be contrary to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation and thus these 
claims were rejected.
EN 
L 315/38 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(270) In their comments on final disclosure, two sampled exporting producers, after questioning the compatibility of the 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation with the WTO rules, suggested that the Commission should simplify its 
approach by simply taking the benchmark for PVA, the product concerned, and compare it with the export price 
of each exporting producers. 
(271) The Commission disagreed with this approach. The Commission first noted that the compatibility of the method 
enshrined in Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation with the WTO rules was discussed in recital (98). The 
Commission then noted that, the methodology proposed by the sampled exporting producers would violate 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, which prescribes the construction of the normal value exclusively on the 
basis of costs of production and sale reflecting undistorted benchmarks for each exporter and producer separately. 
In essence this provision requires the Commission to take into account the particular production method and 
consumption of inputs by each exporting producer individually instead of applying a wholesale benchmark value 
for all exporting producers without regard to their particular production process. These claims were therefore 
rejected. 
(272) In their comments on final disclosure, the same sampled exporting producers argued that the benchmark for coal 
is unreasonably higher than the price level on the market when compared to prices quoted by U.S. Energy 
Information Administration. Considering that China is rich in coal, the sampled exporting producers argued 
that the Commission should consider using the US prices. 
(273) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission first pointed out that, as stated in recital (246), the 
benchmark for coal was extensively discussed in the Note of 30 March 2020. As also mention in that recital, no 
comments on this point were received within the given deadline. The sampled exporting producer sole argument 
was that the prices actually used are significantly higher than the prices quoted in the USA. The Commission noted 
that it is not unusual for energy and energy source prices in the USA to be relatively low. In the absence of any 
other argument concerning the reliability of the benchmark used, this claim was rejected. 
(2) Internally produced inputs used in the production of the product under investigation 
(274) The exporting producers produced internally certain factors of production such as self-produced steam, electricity, 
refrigerating capacity, purified water and like. Notwithstanding the requirement in Anti-dumping questionnaire, 
some exporting producers had failed to allocate the consumption volumes of inputs for these self-produced factors 
of production to the product under investigation. Instead, these exporting producers had only allocated the 
consumption values and volumes of the self-produced factors of production to the product under investigation. 
The Commission sought to establish the undistorted price for the self-produced factors of production. Using the 
undistorted prices of raw materials and labour, which were determined as explained in recitals (259) to (263) and 
(276), the Commission recalculated the undistorted prices of the self-produced factors of production. These 
undistorted prices were subsequently applied in the calculation of the normal value as explained in the 
section 3.1.4.4. 
(275) Those raw materials and self-produced factors of production that only had a negligible weight in the total cost of 
production of the exporting producer as well as on a PCN level, were grouped under consumables. The 
Commission calculated the percentage of the consumables on the total cost of raw materials and applied this 
percentage to the recalculated cost of raw materials when using the established undistorted prices. 
(3) Labour 
(276) The Turkish Statistical Institute publishes detailed information on wages in different economic sectors in Turkey. 
The Commission used the wages reported in the Turkish manufacturing sector for 2016, for the economic activity 
C.20 (Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products) ( 76 ) according to NACE Rev.2 classification ( 77 ). The 2016 
average monthly value was duly adjusted for inflation using the domestic producer price index ( 78 ) as published by 
the Turkish Statistical Institute.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/39 
( 76 ) http://www.turkstat.gov.tr/PreIstatistikTablo.do?istab_id=2090 as last accessed on 30 April 2020. 
( 77 ) This is a statistical classification of economic activities used by Eurostat, https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/nace-rev2 (last viewed on 
30 April 2020). 
( 78 ) http://www.turkstat.gov.tr/PreIstatistikTablo.do?istab_id=2104 (last accessed on 30 April 2020).
 
(277) In their comments on final disclosure, three sampled exporting producers argued that Commission should have 
used wages for the economic activity C.22 (manufacture of rubber and plastic products) in NACE Rev.2 classifi­
cation, instead of C.20. The exporting producers argued that this is because PVA is a type of polymer or plastic, a 
vinyl polymer joined by only carbon-carbon linkages. The linkage is the same as those of typical plastics such as 
polyethylene, polypropylene, and polystyrene, and of water-soluble polymers such as polyacrylamide and poly­
acrylic acid. 
(278) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that, according to Eurostat’s guidelines on 
NACE Rev. 2 classification ( 79 ), economic activity C.20, which was used by the Commission, covers, amongst 
other, manufacture of resins, plastics materials and non-vulcanisable thermoplastic elastomers, the mixing and 
blending of resins on a custom basis, as well as the manufacture of non-customised synthetic resins (C.20.16). This 
class includes manufacture of plastics in primary forms: polymers, including those of ethylene, propylene, styrene, 
vinyl chloride, vinyl acetate and acrylics; polyamides; phenolic and epoxide resins and polyurethanes; alkyd and 
polyester resins and polyethers; silicones; ion-exchangers based on polymers. The same guidelines describe 
economic activity C.22 (manufacture of rubber and plastic products), suggested by the sampled exporting 
producers, as ‘processing new or spent (i.e., recycled) plastics resins into intermediate or final products, using 
such processes as compression moulding; extrusion moulding; injection moulding; blow moulding; and casting’. 
Economic activity C.22 is subdivided into: manufacture of plastic plates, sheets, tubes and profiles; manufacture of 
plastic packing goods; manufacture of builders’ ware of plastic; and manufacture of other plastic products (like 
tableware, fitting school supplies etc.). It is therefore clear that wages for economic activity C.20 are more 
appropriate as labour benchmark for PVA production than wages for economic activity C.22. This claim was 
therefore rejected. 
(4) Electricity and natural gas 
(279) To establish a benchmark for electricity and natural gas, the Commission used the electricity and gas price statistics 
published by the Turkish Statistical Institute ( 80 ) in its regular press releases. From these statistics, the Commission 
used the data of the industrial electricity and gas prices in the corresponding consumption band in Kuruș/kWh 
covering the investigation period. 
(280) In their comments on final disclosure, one sampled exporting producer and one Union producer / user argued that 
Turkish natural gas prices are inappropriate as a benchmark and that the US Gulf coast prices should be used 
instead. The exporting producer argued that Turkish natural gas prices are double the natural gas prices in the 
Union and more than double the US Gulf coast prices. The exporting producer argued that the gas prices in 
Turkey increased in the IP and were 75 % higher than at the end of 2017 even though, global gas prices during the 
same period essentially remained stable. The exporting producer attributed this increase to a mix of circumstances, 
namely: (i) a dependency on imports; (ii) geopolitical tensions with Russia affecting gas supplies to Turkey; 
(iii) sanctions on oil producing countries such as Iran and Venezuela; (iv) political tensions with the US; and 
(v) the devaluation of Turkish Lira. Considering these alleged artificially high natural gas prices, the exporting 
producer argued that either the US Gulf coast prices or average natural gas prices in Turkey during the 2015 to 
2017 period should be used as a benchmark. 
(281) The Union producer / user further argued that Turkey has a comparably small and not liberalized natural gas 
market. Moreover, the Turkish gas prices pertain to gas usage for heating and electricity generation but not large 
scale usage for the production of chemicals. The user argued that US Gulf coast prices should be used as a 
benchmark. 
(282) The Commission disagreed with these claims. The Commission first pointed out that the statement that natural gas 
prices in Turkey are double those in the Union during the IP is factually incorrect. According to Gas prices for non- 
household consumers – bi-annual data (from 2007 onwards) ( 81 ) published by Eurostat, in the IP, at 0,028 EUR/kWh 
(or 0,3 EUR/m 3 ) the average natural gas price for non-household consumers in the Union was 43 % higher than 
the average gas price in Turkey (0,020 EUR/kWh or 0,21 EUR/m 3 ). The Turkish gas prices for non-household 
consumers were therefore significantly lower than those in the Union during the IP.
EN 
L 315/40 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 79 ) NACE Rev. 2 – Statistical classification of economic activities; https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/products-manuals-and-guidelines/-/ 
KS-RA-07-015 (last accessed on 22 July 2020). 
( 80 ) http://www.turkstat.gov.tr/PreTablo.do?(262)alt_id=1029 (last accessed on 22 June 2020). 
( 81 ) https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/data/database (last accessed on 21 July 2020).
 
(283) The Commission then noted that the picture of natural gas prices development in Turkey, painted by the sampled 
exporting producer, is greatly affected by not taking into consideration the significant devaluation of Turkish Lira 
during that period. The exporting producer noted the devaluation as an affecting factor but did not counter it by 
applying a conversion rate of USD or EUR in order to compare the price development to that of US Gulf coast 
prices or Union prices based on a currency that was relatively stable throughout the period. CNY would also be of 
use, especially since this is the currency into which values of factors of production are converted for construction 
of the normal value. 
(284) When considered in EUR, based on the data provided by Eurostat ( 82 ) the natural gas prices in Turkey in the IP 
were 12 % (not 75 %) higher than in 2017 ( 83 ). According to Eurostat, in the same period, prices for non- 
household consumers in the Union increased by around 11 % ( 84 ). Moreover, the period of 2017 to the first 
semester of 2019 (therefore, the period that includes the complete IP) saw the lowest natural gas prices in Turkey 
between 2015 and 2019, when expressed in a stable currency. Indeed, if the Commission was to follow the 
request of the exporting producer and use the average natural gas prices in Turkey between 2015 and 2017 as the 
benchmark, this would have been to the detriment of the sampled exporting producer. Such average price would 
amount to around 1,70 CNY/m 3 and thus would be some 4 % higher than the price actually used by the 
Commission in its calculation. 
(285) Considering the foregoing, whilst prices of natural gas, when expressed in Turkish Lira, are being affected by the 
significant devaluation of that currency, that effect is eliminated by the methodology of recalculation these prices 
into RMB before using them in the construction of the normal value. When considered in the USD, EUR or CNY, 
there is nothing unusual about these prices and their evolution between 2015 and 2019. There is therefore no 
reason to use out-of-the-country benchmark or an average prices during the 2015 to 2017 period. 
(286) Considering the argument that Turkey has a comparably small and not liberalized natural gas market and that gas 
prices in Turkey pertain to gas usage for heating and electricity generation but not large scale usage for the 
production of chemicals, the Commission notes that no evidence to support these claims were provided. Moreover 
the existence of a separate gas tariff for non-household consumers suggests otherwise. 
(287) For the reasons outlined above, these claims were rejected. 
(288) In their comments on final disclosure, the same sampled exporting producer expresses similar concerns with 
regards to electricity prices as these expressed about natural gas and summarised in recital (280). According to the 
exporting producer electricity prices in Turkey also increased dramatically (in line with the price increase observed 
for natural gas) during the investigation period. The exporting producer proposed to use the average of electricity 
prices during the 2015 to 2017 period instead of data for the IP. 
(289) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission first noted that the exporting producer did not 
provide any figures to support it. The Commission could only assume that the claim is based on the electricity 
price evolution in Turkish Lira, which, as in the case on natural gas described in recital (285). As in the case of 
natural gas, the methodology used by the Commission where the benchmarks are recalculated in CNY counters the 
effect of the fluctuation of Turkish Lira. 
(290) The Commission looked at the electricity prices for non-household consumers reported in Eurostat ( 85 ) in EUR. 
Whilst prices in Turkey in the IP were higher by around 12,7 % then in 2017 the average price in the Union has 
also increased by 10,7 % during the same period. Furthermore, the average price for electricity in Turkey in the IP, 
when expressed in EUR, was around 1 % lower than the average price during the 2015 to 2017 period, which the 
exporting producer is proposing to use. It follows that, when the effect of Lira devaluation is removed, it is clear 
that, contrary to what sampled exporting producer claimed, there was no dramatic increase of electricity prices in 
Turkey in the IP. 
(291) For the reasons outlined above, these claims were rejected.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/41 
( 82 ) Ibid. 
( 83 ) Increase from 0,017 EUR/kWh (or 0,18 EUR/m 3 ) to 0,020 EUR/kWh (or 0,21 EUR/m 3 ) (last accessed on 21 July 2020). 
( 84 ) Increase from 0,025 EUR/kWh (or 0,27 EUR/m 3 ) to 0,028 EUR/kWh (or 0,30 EUR/m 3 ) (last accessed on 21 July 2020). 
( 85 ) Electricity prices for non-household consumers – bi-annual data (from 2007 onwards); https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/data/database 
(last accessed on 22 July 2020).
 
(292) In their comments on final disclosure, three importers argued that gas and power costs in Turkey are inflated by 
political decision. To underlie this argument they referred to the evidence submitted in their submission of 16 June 
2020. In that submission, based on an email form a Chief Compliance Officer of a Turkish chemical company, 
they argued that Turkish gas and power market is not liberalised and prices are fixed by public authority. This 
conclusion was allegedly supported by Turkish gas and power market analysis but the importers did not refer to 
any specific part of it. Their argued that based on this argument, the Commission should reconsider Turkey as the 
appropriate representative country or reduce the allegedly higher gas and power costs by not less than 300 %. 
(293) The Commission disagreed with this claim. Even if the Commission was to consider an email from a Chief 
Compliance Officer of a Turkish chemical company as valid evidence of energy price inflation in Turkey, the 
Commission noted that the email starts by stating that ‘Turkey has a very liberal energy market in many aspects’. 
This already contradicts the characterisation of the email in the submission. As to the Turkish gas prices being 
higher than world markets, as mention in recitals (282), Turkish gas prices for non-household consumers are 
significantly lower than those in the Union. Finally, the 300 % downward adjustment for gas and power prices 
appears to be based on a claim in the email form the Chief Compliance Officer of a Turkish chemical company 
that ‘oil and diesel prices are taxed at the rate of 300 %’. Whether or not correct, this is irrelevant for gas and 
electricity prices. These claims were therefore rejected. 
(294) In their comments on final disclosure, one exporting producer and one Union producer / user noted that the 
benchmarks for electricity and natural gas contain VAT. They argued that it is standard practice to use domestic 
sales prices and costs without VAT when calculating the normal value. 
(295) The Commission took note of this comment and adjusted the benchmark for electricity and natural gas by 
removing the VAT (18 %). The normal value and dumping margins were recalculated accordingly for all 
exporting producers. The new findings were re-disclosed as part of the additional final disclosure. 
(296) In their comments on the final disclosure, three exporting producers argued that, when applying the benchmark 
for electricity, the Commission should use the relevant price band applicable to the level of consumption of 
electricity by the exporting producer in question, instead of the average of all bands. 
(297) The Commission took note of this comment and adjusted the benchmark for electricity by applying price bands 
for large and medium-large consumers of electricity, where appropriate. This assessment was based on the 
purchases of electricity by the exporting producers rather than their consumption, as some of them produce 
part of the electricity they consume. The normal value and dumping margins were recalculated accordingly for all 
exporting producers. The new findings were re-disclosed as part of the additional final disclosure. 
(298) In their comments on additional final disclosure, the complainant argued that the magnitude of the reduction of 
the dumping margin following the adjustment discussed in recitals (295) and (297) above was inconsistent with 
what they knew about proportion of natural gas and electricity in the production costs of Sinopec. The 
complainant argued that whilst indeed one producing company of Sinopec could be using significant amount 
of natural gas, this was not the case for the other company. 
(299) In their comments on additional final disclosure a user also questioned the calculations following the adjustment 
discussed in recitals (295) and (297). They considered, that given high proportion of energy in production costs of 
PVA, they expected the impact of the adjustment to be higher. They asked the Commission to verify its calcu­
lations. 
(300) The Commission disagreed with these claims. The Commission noted that, whilst these claims were based on 
assumptions, the Commission’s calculation of Sinopec’s normal value, following the adjustment, was based on 
precise consumption rates provided by the exporting producer and verified by the Commission. With regards to 
Sinopec Ningxia, the company that allegedly did not use substantial amounts of natural gas in PVA production, as 
explained in recital (329), due to the use of facts available under Article 18 of the basic Regulation, for each PCN
EN 
L 315/42 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
reported by Sinopec Ningxia, the Commission used the highest constructed normal value of the other cooperating 
exporting producers. Whilst these indeed were not significantly affected by the removal of VAT from natural gas 
and electricity prices, the overall impact of individual companies on the group’s dumping margin varies depending 
on the proportion of sales of these companies in all export sales of the group to the Union. Finally, the 
Commission noted that the adjustment, whilst related to natural gas and electricity did have a knock-off effect 
on, for instance, overheads, which were calculated as a percentage of undistorted costs of manufacturing. If these 
costs diminish, due to removal of VAT from natural gas and electricity prices, so do the overheads. This claim was 
therefore rejected. 
(5) Consumables/negligible quantities 
(301) Due to the large number of factors of production of the sampled cooperating exporting producers, some of the 
raw materials that only had a negligible weight in the total cost of production of the exporting producer as well as 
on a product type level were grouped under consumables. 
(302) The Commission calculated the percentage of the consumables on the total cost of raw materials and applied this 
percentage to the recalculated cost of raw materials when using the established undistorted prices. 
(303) In their comments on final disclosure, one sampled exporting producer noted that a significant number of factors 
of production, which were considered by the Commission as negligible, was treated as consumables and therefore 
individual benchmarks were not established for these factors of production. Whilst the exporting producer did not 
contest this approach in principle, it did question its execution. First, the exporting producer argued that the 
producers had to report a disproportionate detailed information that was in the end not used to compute the 
normal value. Second, the exporting producer noted that the Commission established values for consumables by 
applying the proportion of these consumables in its total direct raw material costs to the undistorted values for 
these costs based on benchmarks. The exporting producer argued that this way the Commission effectively treated 
consumables as distorted even though no distortion has been established. The exporting producer further argued 
that Commission could not assume that the consumables were distorted by the same percentage as the direct raw 
materials. The exporting producer expressed similar reservation with the way the Commission treated overheads. In 
view of these issues, the exporting producer requested that the Commission caps the consumables and overheads 
at the values reported for both consumables and overheads by the exporting producer. 
(304) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that, in order to establish and verify whether a 
factor of production value is negligible, a detail breakdown of product types per all factors of production is 
necessary. The level of information requested was therefore appropriate to establish and verify all the information, 
including the proportion of consumables in the direct raw material costs that was used in the construction of 
normal value. With regards to the argument that the consumables were not distorted and that their values should 
be capped at the levels reported by the exporting producer, the Commission noted that significant distortions were 
established in section 3.1.1 above. In that case, according to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, domestic costs 
may be used but only to the extent that they are positively established not to be distorted, on the basis of accurate 
and appropriate evidence. No such evidence with regards to consumables, as well as overheads, was put forward by 
the exporting producers, nor found by the Commission. As to the assumption that consumables were distorted by 
the same percentage as the direct raw materials, the Commission first recalled that the sampled exporting producer 
did not contest the principle of treating minor factors of production as consumables. Whilst the Commission 
applied to these the average distortion factor of the other direct raw materials, the exporting producer provided no 
evidence that such assumption was incorrect. These claims were therefore rejected. 
(6) Manufacturing overhead costs, SG&A and profits 
(305) The manufacturing overheads incurred by the cooperating exporting producers were expressed as a share of the 
costs of manufacturing actually incurred by the exporting producers. This percentage was applied to the undis­
torted costs of manufacturing. 
(306) For SG&A and profit, the Commission used the financial data of the Chemical operation segment of the Turkish 
company Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. for 2018 as announced in the Note of 30 March 2020 and stated in 
recital (218).
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/43
 
(307) As explained in the recital (205), the Commission concluded that the financial expenses of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve 
Sanayi A.S in 2018 were extraordinary high and that they should be appropriately adjusted. Therefore, in the 
calculation of SG&A, the Commission disregarded the financial expenses of 2018 and replaced it with the average 
financial expenses of the company in 2017, 2016 and 2015. The adjustment resulted in a higher percentage of 
SG&A, but a lower percentage of profit. Thus, the effect of the extraordinary financial expenses of 2018 was 
merely a shift between SG&A and profit without any impact on SG&A and profit taken as whole. Therefore, in 
total, it had no influence on the level of SG&A and profit taken together. 
(308) As further explained in recital (303) in their comments on final disclosure one sampled exporting producer argued 
that overheads, together with consumables, should not be treated as distorted and their values should be capped at 
the values reported by the exporting producer. This claim was addressed and dismissed in recital (304). 
(309) In their comments on final disclosure, one sampled exporting producer argued that its indirect labour, for the 
purpose of normal value construction, was included in the overheads instead of being accounted for as a factor or 
production, especially since the Commission has identified a precise benchmark for labour. The sampled exporting 
producer commented that using the labour benchmark for the indirect labour would result in a more accurate 
undistorted cost than including it in the overheads. 
(310) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that the exporting producer had himself 
included the indirect labour in the overheads in the costs of production and at the same time had provided 
the indirect labour as an individual factor of production. In order to avoid double counting, the Commission 
removed direct labour as a factor of production and kept it as part of overheads. Considering the nature of indirect 
labour as overhead, the significant difference in salaries and qualifications of the staff involved in the product 
manufacturing and in order to avoid any double counting and ensure consistency, the Commission found no 
reason to change the original approach of the exporting producer, and the Commission retained the indirect labour 
as overhead cost. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(311) In their comments on final disclosure, two sampled exporting producers argued that Commission should have used 
SG&A and profit data from more than one producer. The exporting producers based this arguments on findings of 
the Appellate Body in EU – Bed Linen (DS141). 
(312) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation does 
not prohibit using SG&A data from one producer. The compatibility of this provision with WTO rules was covered 
in recital (98). Furthermore, as explained in section 3.1.2.3, the Commission found only one company in the 
representative country with readily available data. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(313) In their comments on final disclosure, three sampled exporting producers challenged the fact that the Commission 
removed certain freight expenses from the export price, whilst these expenses (together with handling expenses, 
etc. and finance expenses such as bank charges) were not removed from the SG&A costs of the producer in the 
representative country. 
(314) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that there is nothing indicating that such 
expenses were included in SG&A costs reported for the producer in the representative country. Furthermore, the 
sampled exporting producers provided no evidence to the contrary. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(315) In their comments on final disclosure, one sampled exporting producer agreed that the financial expenses of the 
producer in the representative country were extraordinarily high and thus SG&A for that company had to be 
adjusted accordingly. However, the sampled exporting producer disagreed with the adjustment of that company 
profit on the account of the same extraordinary expenses. The exporting producer argued that the adjustment of 
profits negates the one done to SG&A as the combined SG&A and profit remained the same. 
(316) The Commission disagreed with this assessment, arguing that both SG&A and profit were affected by the extra­
ordinary financial expenses. It would make no sense correcting one but not correcting the other. In the Commis­
sion’s view, the adjustment made to profit does not negate but complement the adjustment made to SG&A costs. 
This claim was therefore rejected.
EN 
L 315/44 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
3.1.4.2. A p p l i c a t i o n o f A r t i c l e 1 8 o f t h e b a s i c R e g u l a t i o n t o W a n W e i , M e n g w e i 
a n d S h u a n g x i n 
(317) When examining the replies to the Anti-dumping questionnaires of Wan Wei, Mengwei and Shuangxin, the 
Commission noted that in the parts of the replies related to the cost of production and thus the calculation of 
normal value, the factors of production for the internally produced inputs (self-produced steam, electricity and 
similar) were not appropriately allocated to the product under investigation. This went against the instructions 
given by the Commission in the Anti-dumping questionnaire. In the following correspondence, including defi­
ciency letters and pre-verification letters, the Commission reiterated its request for Wan Wei, Mengwei and 
Shuangxin to complete their replies following the instructions given in the Anti-dumping questionnaire. 
(318) In their subsequent replies, the abovementioned three companies argued that, in their views, it was not possible to 
complete the questionnaire as requested by the Commission. Notably, these companies argued that there was no 
objective or accurate basis to separate consumption of each and every self-produced materials/energy and that it 
was not feasible to report of consumption and materials purchases for each self-produced material/energy separ­
ately. The subsequent revised versions of the replies remained deficient in this respect. 
(319) The Commission disagreed with this view. It explained that since these companies had already reported the inputs 
for producing the self-produced factors of production, these inputs could equally be allocated to the product under 
investigation. 
(320) The Commission informed Wan Wei ( 86 ), Mengwei ( 87 ) and Shuangxin ( 88 ) that due to these shortcomings of the 
information provided by these exporting producers as described, the Commission decided to base its findings on 
facts available in accordance with Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation as far as the internally produced inputs used 
in the production of the product under investigation are concerned. 
(321) In their replies to these Article 18 letters, the exporting producers reiterated their explanations why they considered 
they were unable to provide the requested data. 
(322) The Commission established the undistorted prices for the internally produced inputs and applied these prices in 
the calculation of the normal value as explained in the recitals (274) and (275). 
(323) During the verification visit carried out at the premises of Mengwei in November 2019, the company made several 
revisions to its reply to the questionnaire, including the part related to the cost of production. 
(324) At the very end of the last day of verification visit, the company submitted yet another version of the reply, thus 
nullifying part of the work made earlier during the verification and the related preparatory work. The affected part 
related to the cost of production with repercussions to the calculation of normal value. In this new version, inter 
alia, the number of labour hours was reduced considerably from the earlier versions. The Commission therefore 
informed the company that it was impossible to verify this modified information submitted at the last moment of 
the verification visit. 
(325) After the verification visits the Commission informed Mengwei ( 89 ) that the last submission of data, which was 
received at the very end of the verification visit, could not be verified and that the Commission will base its 
findings on facts available in accordance with Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation as far as this last submission is 
concerned. Mengwei did not come forward with any comments following this Article 18 letter. 
(326) The Commission decided to disregard a part of the information submitted at the last moment of the verification 
visit which could not be verified, and in this situation it resorted to and based its findings on the information 
submitted prior to this last version, which the Commission could verify.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/45 
( 86 ) Company Limited version of mission report sent on 5 March 2020 and Article 18 letter sent on 26 February 2020 (t20.001693). 
( 87 ) Company Limited version of mission report sent on 5 March 2020 and Article 18 letter sent on 26 February 2020 (t20.001693). 
( 88 ) Company Limited version of mission report sent on 5 March 2020 and Article 18 letter sent on 26 February 2020 (t20.001692). 
( 89 ) Company Limited version of mission report sent on 5 March 2020 and Article 18 letter sent on 16 March 2020 (t20.002421).
 
3.1.4.3. A p p l i c a t i o n o f A r t i c l e 1 8 o f t h e b a s i c R e g u l a t i o n t o S i n o p e c N i n g x i a 
(327) During the verification visit at the premises of Sinopec Ningxia, which took place from 9 to 12 December 2019 in 
Yinchuan (Ningxia), the Commission identified some substantial and serious deficiencies in the reporting of the 
cost of production. These deficiencies significantly impeded the normal process of the investigation for that section 
of the questionnaire reply. In particular, Sinopec Ningxia made a wrong allocation of the value and consumption 
of the factors of production for the upstream phases of the PVA production (i.e. VAM, acetylene, steam, etc.), thus 
resulting in significant over/underestimation of the majority of factors of production used indirectly to produce 
PVA. As a result, the cost of production per PCN was not reliable. 
(328) The Commission considered that these substantial and serious deficiencies in the cost of production per product 
type in the questionnaire significantly impeded the normal process of the investigation, for this section of the 
questionnaire. Therefore, the Commission informed Sinopec Ningxia about its intention to apply facts available in 
accordance with Article 18(1) of the basic Regulation as far as the calculation of the normal value was concerned 
under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(329) In this regard, the normal value for Sinopec Ningxia was constructed using the information provided by the other 
cooperating exporting producers (namely the cost of production and consumption of factors of production, per 
product type). In particular, for each PCN reported by Sinopec Ningxia, the Commission used the highest 
constructed normal value of the other cooperating exporting producers. 
(330) In their comments on final disclosure, one sampled exporting producer and one union producer / user argued that 
by using the highest constructed normal value of the other cooperating exporting producers as the normal value 
for Sinopec Ningxia, the Commission used Article 18 of the basic Regulation in a punitive way. Furthermore, the 
exporting producer argued that, by using data from other exporting producers, which were also subject to the 
application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the Commission did not use the best fact available but – in a way 
– applied Article 18 twice to Sinopec Ningxia. The exporting producer further argued that the Commission should 
have used Sinopec Chongqing’s data instead, since that company was not subject to Article 18 of the basic 
Regulation. According to the exporting producer, the fact that the production process of Sinopec Chongqing is 
different from the production process of Sinopec Ningxia does not disqualify Sinopec Chongqing’s data, as 
production process has no impact on prices of PVA. 
(331) The Commission disagreed with these claims. The Commission first noted that, as explained in recitals (317) to 
(322), the application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation to the Wan Wei group and Shuangxin was limited to 
self-producer factors of production. As further explained in recital (274) and calculation sheets disclosed to the 
sampled exporting producers, in order to establish values for self-produced factors of productions that were 
significant in terms of costs of proportion, the Commission used the consumption rates provided by the 
exporting producers in question and verified by the Commission. Those rates were applied to undistorted 
values like for any other factor of production. As explained in recital (275), self-produced factors of production 
that only had a negligible weight in the total costs of production of the exporting producer, were grouped under 
consumables, like other insignificant factors of production. Therefore, in a very limited application of Article 18 of 
the basic Regulation to the Wan Wei group and Shuangxin, the Commission used exclusively verified data 
provided by these companies, together with the benchmarks, as for any other factor of production. The 
Commission therefore considered that the normal values established for the Wan Wei group and Shuangxin 
could be used as best facts available without penalising Sinopec Ningxia. 
(332) With regards to suitability of Sinopec Chongqing’s data as best facts available, both the Commission and the 
exporting producer noted that the production process used in Sinopec Chongqing is different from the one used in 
Sinopec Ningxia. As far as the basic raw materials are concerned, production process in Sinopec Ningxia is closer 
to the one used in Wan Wei group and Shuangxin. Whilst this perhaps has no impact on prices of PVA, it has a 
significant impact on construction of normal value, which is based on factors of production (including raw 
materials), their use rate and benchmarks. Indeed, Sinopec Group itself acknowledged the impact of production 
process on the level of constructed normal value and consequently on dumping margins. In their submission of 
16 June 2020, Sinopec argued that ‘in several US anti-dumping investigations, the fact that its production process 
and the specific characteristics of its products are significantly different than those of other Chinese producers has 
led to a zero or very low dumping margin for Sinopec Chongqing’. Since the production process of Sinopec 
Chongqing is also significantly different from the one used in Sinopec Ningxia, the data of the former cannot be 
considered as the best facts available to establish the normal value for the latter.
EN 
L 315/46 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(333) Finally, as far as the use of the highest normal value per product type is concerned, the Commission does not 
consider this approach as punitive. Since the Commission was unable to verify and therefore use the data supplied 
by Sinopec Ningxia for the construction of its normal value, there is no evidence suggesting that Sinopec Ningxia’s 
normal value per product type would be below the highest normal value per product type of the other cooperating 
producers that use similar raw materials. 
(334) For the reasons outlined above, these claims were rejected. 
3.1.4.4. C a l c u l a t i o n o f t h e n o r m a l v a l u e 
(335) In order to establish the constructed normal value, the Commission took the following steps. 
(336) Firstly, the Commission established the undistorted costs of manufacturing of PVA. It applied the undistorted unit 
costs to the actual consumption of the individual factors of production of the cooperating exporting producer. 
(337) Secondly, the Commission increased the undistorted costs of manufacturing by adding the manufacturing 
overheads determined as described in recital (305), to arrive at the undistorted costs of production. 
(338) Finally, to the costs of production established as described in recital (337), the Commission applied SG&A and 
profit of Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S explained in recitals (205) and (218). 
(339) The SG&A, expressed as a percentage of the Costs of Goods Sold (‘COGS’) and applied to the undistorted costs of 
production, amounted to 17,6 %. 
(340) The profit, expressed as a percentage of the COGS and applied to the undistorted costs of production, amounted to 
4,0 %. 
(341) On that basis, the Commission constructed the normal value per product type on an ex-works basis in accordance 
with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. 
(342) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, three traders of the product under investigation claimed that the 
determination of normal value should take into consideration quantity rebates for factors of production, electricity, 
water and natural gas. These parties claimed that general indexes did not consider such rebates and that these 
rebates are available to purchases of large quantities. These parties requested that an adjustment should be made to 
the normal value on the basis of these claimed rebates on factors of production, electricity, water and natural gas. 
The interested parties also claimed that the vast majority of PVA producers are large companies benefiting from 
price reduction when acquiring raw materials and energy. The same interested parties reiterated to their claim 
following the Note of 30 March 2020, without submitting any further evidence to support their claim. At a later 
stage, the same parties also claimed that the Turkish gas and power market is not liberalised and that the prices are 
fixed by public authorities. 
(343) It is recalled that the sources used for electricity and natural gas referred to in recital (279) contain data for 
industrial users. Also, it is noted that the quantity rebates claimed by the interested parties or their magnitude were 
merely general assertions and were not quantified, nor substantiated in any way. Finally, the information brought 
forward by these parties did not support their claim that the gas and power market is not liberalised and that the 
prices are fixed by public authorities. On the contrary, the reports submitted by these parties describe the features 
of the liberalised Turkish energy market and the role of the relevant regulatory bodies which is merely focused on 
ensuring the proper functioning of the market. Therefore, these claims are rejected as unsubstantiated. 
(344) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, the same interested parties claimed that the Chinese exporters subject 
to this investigation did not have ‘substantial sales costs’ or financial costs for PVA products and that when 
calculating the normal value, the Commission should not include any sales cost nor financial costs of the exporting 
producers to the calculation. Similar claims regarding lower sales cost were repeated by the same parties also at a 
later stage. 
(345) The claim made in the context of calculating the normal value was similar to the claim that the same interested 
parties had made in the context of choosing Ilkalem Ticaret Ve Sanayi A.S. as an appropriate company in the 
representative country, which was explained and addressed in recitals (216) and (217) above. The Commission also 
notes that the claim that the Chinese exporting producers did not incur any substantial sales cost or financial costs 
related to their PVA products was not substantiated in any relevant way and was not confirmed by the investi­
gation. Therefore, this claim was rejected.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/47
 
(346) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, the same three interested parties also expressed their opinion on 
suitable methods for accounting for the depreciation of the investment in the context of calculating the normal 
value. At a later stage, the same parties added to their claim also that the PVA of Chinese origin did not require 
any Research and Development (‘R&D’) cost. 
(347) The general methodology for accounting for the manufacturing overhead costs, SG&A and profits, in which also 
the depreciation and R&D cost is included, was explained in the recital (305) above. Furthermore, the detailed 
methodology for each cooperating exporting producer has been disclosed to these companies in their respective 
specific disclosure documents. In accordance with the established practise, each of these exporting producers is 
always given the opportunity to comment on their respective calculations and methodology. Therefore, this claim 
made by traders of the product under investigation was considered factually incorrect and therefore rejected. 
(348) In their comments on the final disclosure, the GOC argued that the Commission adopted the Turkey manu­
facturers’ cost data of PVB, including the prices of its imported raw materials, to construct normal value for 
Chinese companies, without making proper adjustment. According to the GOC, the constructed normal value 
seriously deviates from the actual production situation of the sampled exporting producers, rendering the price 
comparability requirements in the WTO rules meaningless. 
(349) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that it did not use the Turkey manufacturers’ 
cost data of PVB, including the prices of its imported raw materials, to construct normal value. It did use the 
SG&A and profit percentage of the producer in the representative country. However the cost structure (including 
the usage rates of raw materials) was based on the data supplied by the exporting producers and verified by the 
Commission, to which undistorted benchmarks were applied. This claim was therefore rejected. 
3.2. Export price 
(350) The sampled exporting producers exported to the Union either directly to independent customers or through 
related companies acting as an importer. 
(351) When the exporting producers export the product concerned directly to independent customers in the Union, the 
export price was the price actually paid or payable for the product concerned when sold for export to the Union, 
in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation. 
(352) When the exporting producers export the product concerned to the Union through a related company acting as an 
importer, the export price was established on the basis of the price at which the imported product was first resold 
to independent customers in the Union, in accordance with Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation. In this case, 
adjustments to the price were made for all costs incurred between importation and resale, including SG&A 
expenses, actually incurred by related importer and profit (of 6,89 %), which were obtained from cooperating 
unrelated importers. 
(353) One of the exporting producers sold certain quantities of PVA to unrelated domestic traders, knowing that these 
sales were destined for the Union market. These sales were also taken into consideration when establishing the 
export price. 
(354) In their comments on final disclosure, one exporting producer argued that, when calculating the credit cost, the 
Commission should use interest rates on loans in USD rather than in RMB, as the export transactions were 
invoiced in USD. 
(355) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that, whilst the export transactions were 
invoiced in USD, the payments were converted and deposited in RMB. Furthermore the exporting producer did 
not demonstrate that they have loans in USD and therefore the correct interest rate applied to credit cost is that 
for RMB. This claim was therefore rejected. 
3.3. Comparison 
(356) The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the cooperating exporting producer on an ex- 
works basis. 
(357) Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the export price for differences 
affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation. Adjustments, 
based upon the actual figures of the cooperating company, were made for handling charges, freight, credit costs, 
bank charges, commissions, and indirect taxes.
EN 
L 315/48 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(358) For two sampled groups of companies, an adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) was also made for sales through 
related companies. Both groups sold PVA to the Union through their related trader / trader-producer. It was found 
that the functions of the related trader / trader-producer were similar to those of an agent. Those related companies 
were looking for customers and established contact with them. Therefore, they bore the responsibility of the selling 
process. The adjustment consisted of the SG&A of the respective related companies and for profit (of 6,89 %), 
which was obtained from cooperating unrelated importers. 
(359) Following the Note of 20 December 2019, three traders of the product under investigation claimed that the 
Commission should consider the elements laid down in the Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation when 
comparing between the export price and normal value, such as physical characteristics, discounts, rebates and 
quantities, level of trade, credit, after sale costs, commissions and ‘other factors’ (notably for the costs to certify a 
higher level product). Similar claims regarding credit cost and after sale technical assistance were repeated by the 
same parties also at a later stage. 
(360) As explained in the recital (357) above, the Commission, when justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, 
adjusted the export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) 
of the basic Regulation. Therefore, these claims are rejected as redundant. 
(361) In their comments on final disclosure, one user argued that the Commission should not compare the normal value 
based on GTA values and SG&A and profit of the producer in the representative countries with export price based 
on the raw material prices, SG&A and profit margin as incurred by the Chinese exporting producers in the PRC. 
According to the user, both the export price and the normal value must be based on the same raw material and 
SG&A costs. 
(362) The Commissions disagreed with this characterisation of the dumping calculation. As explained in section 3.1.4.4 
the Commission established the normal value in accordance with Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. As 
explained in section 3.2, contrary to what is claim by the user, the Commission based the export price on 
actual prices charged by the cooperating exporting producers, not on the costs. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(363) In their comments on final disclosure, two sampled exporting producers argued that the Commission was wrong 
in adjusting the export price of sales via related traders under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation for commis­
sions. They further argued that the Commission provided no evidence underlying the need for such adjustment. 
Both exporting producers argued that the producing and selling companies in their respective groups form a single 
economic entity. 
(364) The Commission disagreed with these claims. For the reasons disclosed to both groups of exporting producers in 
the additional final disclosure document, the Commission did not consider that either group forms a single 
economic entity. The details of the arguments explained in those documents contain business confidential 
information and cannot be summarised here in detail. In its assessment, the Commission considered in particular: 
(i) whether there is indeed a role split between the companies in question, namely one only sells and the other one 
only produces; and (ii) whether the principal function of these sales companies is to sell or to facilitate the sale of 
the corporate product. The Commission also looked at the location of the companies and considered in detail their 
selling, general and administrative expenses. Based on this assessment, these claims were rejected. 
(365) In their comments on the additional final disclosure, Sinopec Group disagreed with Commission’s conclusion that 
an adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation was warranted. The exporting produce first argued that 
Sinopec Chongqing’s direct sales to the USA are limited and ‘unusual’. Sinopec Group also noted that Sinopec 
Ningxia had no direct export sales. Sinopec Group argued that only when such direct export sales are (very) 
substantial that the adjustment may be warranted. Sinopec Group then argued that the fact that producing 
companies have significant direct domestic sales is irrelevant for the purpose of determination whether a single 
economic entity exists. Furthermore Sinopec Group argued that the selling expenses of Sinopec Chongqing and 
Sinopec Ningxia related only to domestic sales and export sale to the USA, in the case of Sinopec Chongqing, and 
thus were irrelevant. Sinopec Group then noted that the fact that Sinopec Central China bought PVA from 
unrelated producers did not mean that it cannot constitute a single economic entity with the producing companies. 
Furthermore, Sinopec Group considered these purchases to be very limited and argued that only when purchases 
from unrelated parties are substantial that the adjustment can be made. Finally, Sinopec argued that the distance 
between the producing companies and the trader is immaterial.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/49
 
(366) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that, in its comments on the additional final 
disclosure, Sinopec Group did not contest the facts underlying the Commission’s assessment and did not offer 
additional facts. In relation to the fact that Sinopec Central China, Sinopec Chongqing and Sinopec Ningxia are all 
controlled by the Sinopec Group, the Commission recalled that the existence of common control is a necessary 
prerequisite for the existence of a single economic entity and triggers the analysis of whether the totality of the 
relevant facts pertaining to the related trader demonstrate the existence of a single economic entity. The purpose is 
to determine whether the functions carried out by the related trader are similar to those of an internal sales 
department, or not. This analysis needs to be conducted on the basis of the facts established in each case and, 
therefore, any comparison with other investigations where it was (or not) decided to perform an adjustment under 
Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation is not always appropriate. 
(367) Based on the uncontested facts of the case and having considered the arguments put forward by Sinopec Group in 
its reply to the additional final disclosure, the Commission considered that this is not the case here. 
(368) First, Sinopec Chongqing had significant direct sales to third countries. Whilst their percentage in total export sales 
might have been below that found in some other cases, the Commission still found it considerable. The Sinopec 
Group claimed that Sinopec Chongqing’s export sales to third countries were ‘unusual’ as they were made to the 
USA to benefit from a zero duty rate under the relevant USA anti-dumping legislation. While the Commission was 
not in a position to verify the veracity of that allegation, it noted that it would not detract from the fact that 
Sinopec Chongqing is making genuine export sales to third country markets, which are recognised as such by the 
authorities of the importing country concerned. In addition, Sinopec itself acknowledged that these sales were 
responsible for part of Sinopec Chongqing’s sales expenses. 
(369) The Commission disagreed that the existence of direct sales by the producer on the domestic market is irrelevant. 
As established by the Court ( 90 ), a single economic entity exists where a producer entrusts tasks normally falling 
within the responsibilities of an internal sales department to a distribution company. Domestic sales as well as 
export sales discussed in recital (368) are normally a responsibility of an internal sales department. Here, the 
Commission took note that Sinopec did not dispute sales expenses with regards to domestic (and part of export) 
sales and considered that ‘it is only normal that these companies incurred selling expenses’. 
(370) The Commission noted that Sinopec did not contest either that Sinopec Central China, does not exclusively sell 
nor indeed export PVA produced by the group, but also trades PVA produced by other, unrelated, companies. The 
fact that it did not export this third-party PVA but sells it on the domestic market, does not negate the conclusion 
that in this it behaved more like a trader than an internal sales department. 
(371) Finally, concerning the purchases of Sinopec Central China form unrelated PVA producers, the Commission 
disagreed with the argument that only when purchases from unrelated parties are substantial that an adjustment 
can be made. Just because this was the case in Musim Mas ( 91 ), it does not mean that the proportion of purchases 
found in that case is the threshold under which companies form a single economic entity and over which single 
economic entity cannot exist. Indeed, none of the elements discussed above is, in itself, decisive. They should be 
considered as a whole within each individual case’s context. 
(372) To conclude, the Commission recalled that the purpose of the analysis under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regu­
lation is to determine the status of the related trading company in the light of the totality of the relevant facts. It is 
not required that all facts are found to be present for all companies within the group to allow the conclusion that 
a given company within that group has to be considered as an agent acting on a commission basis. Therefore, the 
argument that Sinopec Central China could be considered as such an agent in relation to one company of the 
group, but as an internal sales department of the other company of the same group is not convincing. 
(373) Indeed, when looking at the whole picture of the Sinopec group and the activities of Sinopec Central China 
therein, the Commission confirmed that the latter could not be considered as an internal sales department, but 
rather qualified as a trader within the meaning of Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation. 
(374) For the reasons outlined above, this claim was rejected.
EN 
L 315/50 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 90 ) See for instance Judgment of General Court of 25 June 2015 in Case T-26/12, Musim Mas para, ECLI:EU:T:2015:437, para. 43. 
( 91 ) Ibid.
 
(375) In their comments on additional final disclosure, Wan Wei group disagreed with the Commission’s conclusion that 
an adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation is warranted for sales of Mengwei via Wan Wei. Wan 
Wei group complained about being given only 5 days to comment on the additional final disclosure, rather than 
the statutory minimum of 10 days, thereby hampering its rights of defence. Wan Wei then stated that Commission 
allegedly noted during the verification visit that Mengwei is merely a factory or production base of Wan Wei. The 
exporting producer then argued that Wan Wei controls Mengwei and thereby they form a single economic entity. 
According to the exporting producer, the Commission implicitly acknowledged this by assigning a single dumping 
margin to Wan Wei Group. 
(376) The exporting producer then argued that Mengwei’s export sales to third countries were not substantial when 
compared to all its sales. The exporting producer argued that, it is only when such direct export sales are (very) 
substantial, that an adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation can be made. The exporting producer 
further argued that Mengwei’s direct domestic sales are irrelevant when assessing whether Wan Wei acts as 
Mengwei’s sales department. The exporting producer argued that, in any event, the existence of direct sales by 
the producing company does not preclude a finding of single economic entity. The exporting producer confirmed 
that Wan Wei buys PVA from unrelated producers but argued that these purchases constituted a small quantity 
when compared with the purchases from Mengwei. The exporting producer argued that the fact that the trader also 
purchases products from other companies does not mean that it cannot form a single economic entity with a 
producing company. Finally, the exporting producer argued that the distance between Wan Wei and Mengwei is 
immaterial. 
(377) The Commission disagreed with this claim. With regards to the procedural part of the claim, the Commission 
noted that Article 20(5) of the basic Regulation explicitly foresees a shorter period than 10 days for comments on 
additional final disclosure. Indeed, considering that the comments received concerned only one aspect of the 
findings in the investigation, the Commission considered that 5 days deadline is sufficient. Furthermore, if the 
sampled exporting producer considered this deadline to be insufficient, it could have requested an extension. Such 
extension was requested by another interested party and was granted by the Commission. 
(378) With regards to the substantive part of the claim, the Commission noted that, in its comments on the additional 
final disclosure, Wan Wei did not contest the facts underlying the Commission’s assessment and did not offer 
additional facts. With regards to the fact that Mengwei is controlled by the Wan Wei, the Commission recalled that 
control of the trading company over the producer (or vice versa) is a necessary prerequisite for the existence of a 
single economic entity and triggers the analysis of whether the totality of the relevant facts pertaining to the related 
trader demonstrate the existence of a single economic entity. The purpose is to determine whether the functions 
carried out by the related trader are similar to those of an internal sales department, or not. This analysis needs to 
be conducted on the basis of the facts established in each case and, therefore, any comparison with other 
investigations where it was or not decided to perform an adjustment under Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation 
is meaningless. 
(379) Based on the uncontested facts of the case and having considered the arguments put forward by Wan Wei in its 
reply to the additional final disclosure, the Commission considered that this is not the case here. 
(380) First, with regards to the claim that Wan Wei and Mengwei form a single entity since they are considered as a 
group, and thus receive one dumping margin, the Commission noted that this does not mean that they form a 
single economic entity. These are two different concepts. The Commission also noted that at no point of the 
investigation it agreed that Mengwei is merely a factory or production base of Wan Wei. Indeed, the intention to 
apply Article 2(10)(i) of the basic Regulation to sales of Mengwei through Wan Wei confirms that the Commission 
disagreed with this claim. 
(381) Second, the Commission agreed that the proportion of direct sales to third countries in total sales (export and 
domestic) of Mengwei was relatively low. This is because Mengwei had significant direct sales to the domestic 
market. Therefore, if Mengwei’s direct export sales were compared to all its export sales (namely, without domestic 
sales), their proportion would be significantly higher.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/51
 
(382) Third, the Commission disagreed that the existence of direct sales by the producer on the domestic market is 
irrelevant. As established by the Court ( 92 ), a single economic entity exists where a producer entrusts tasks normally 
falling within the responsibilities of an internal sales department to a distribution company. Direct domestic sales 
(as well as export sales discussed above) are normally a responsibility of an internal sales department. On this point 
the Commission also noted that Wan Wei Group did not dispute the Commission’s argument based on the sales 
costs of Mengwei. These costs clearly prove that Mengwei has its own sales department and is not a mere factory 
or production base of Wan Wei, as claimed by the exporting producer. In any event, the Commission recalled that, 
as explained above, Mengwei had significant direct export sales, which as such is sufficient to show that they have 
a genuine sales department for export sales. 
(383) The Commission noted that Wan Wei Group did not contest either that Wan Wei does not exclusively sell or 
indeed export PVA produced by the group, but also trades PVA produced by other, unrelated, companies. This also 
supports that the conclusion that Wan Wei acted more like a trader then internal sales department of Mengwei. 
(384) Concerning the purchases of Wan Wei form unrelated PVA producers, the Commission disagreed with the 
argument that only when purchases from unrelated parties are substantial that an adjustment can be made. Just 
because this was the case in Musim Mas ( 93 ), it does not mean that the proportion of purchases found in that case 
is the threshold under which companies form a single economic entity and over which single economic entity 
cannot exist. Indeed, none of the elements discussed above is, in itself, decisive. They should be considered as a 
whole within each individual case’s context. 
(385) Indeed, when looking at the whole picture of the Wan Wei group and the activities of Wan Wei with regards to 
Mengwei’s PVA, the Commission confirmed that, the former could not be considered as an internal sales 
department of the latter, but rather qualified as a trader within the meaning of Article 2(10)(i) of the basic 
Regulation. 
(386) For the reasons outlined above, this claim was rejected. 
(387) In their comments on final disclosure, three sampled exporting producers and a Union producer / user claimed 
that no adjustment should be made for non-refundable VAT. Notably these interested parties argued that the 
Commission has not explained why such an adjustment is necessary, particularly in light of the fact that the 
normal value is constructed by (partially) using data from a third country. Also these interested parties claimed that 
the Commission has not explained why, without VAT adjustment, there would be a difference between the export 
price and the constructed normal value affecting price comparability. In their view, as the normal price is based on 
construction, there is no refund of input VAT and thus no adjustment should made for differences in VAT refund. 
(388) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission made an adjustment under Article 2(10)(b) of the 
basic Regulation for the difference in indirect taxes between export sales from the PRC to the Union and the 
normal value where indirect taxes such as VAT have been excluded. The Commission does not need to demon­
strate that the constructed normal value actually incur VAT that can be fully refunded upon sales on the domestic 
market, as this is irrelevant. The normal value that was constructed as stated in recitals (335) to (347) and (295) 
did not include VAT, as the undistorted values in the representative country are used for the calculation of the 
normal value in the exporting country net of their VAT. The actual situation concerning the VAT treatment of the 
sales in the domestic market and upon export occurs entirely in the PRC. The investigation concluded that in the 
IP in the PRC the exporting producers incur a VAT liability of 13 % or 16 % (13 % is applicable from April to June 
2019 and 16 % is applicable for July 2018 to March 2019) at exportation while 5 %, 9 % or 10 % is refunded (5 % 
is applicable from July to August 2018, 9 % is applicable from September to October 2018 and 10 % is applicable 
from November 2018 to June 2019). Therefore, in line with Article 2(10)(b) of the basic Regulation, for the 
difference in the indirect taxation, in this case the VAT that is partially refunded with regard to export sales, the 
Commission duly adjusted the normal value. This claim was therefore rejected.
EN 
L 315/52 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 92 ) See for instance Judgment of General Court of 25 June 2015 in Case T-26/12, Musim Mas para, ECLI:EU:T:2015:437, para. 43. 
( 93 ) Ibid.
 
(389) In their comments on final disclosure, three importers reiterated their comments that the Commission should 
adjust export price to account for (i) Chinese exporting producers never appoint commercial agents or inter­
mediaries but rather negotiate directly with Union importers; (ii) exporting producers of low quality PVA did not 
incur in R&D costs; (iii) Chinese exporting producers never allow payment delays, thus they do not incur in 
financial costs; (iv) Chinese exporting producer never grant post sales technical assistance. 
(390) The Commission disagreed with this claim. The Commission noted that it based the export price on prices actually 
paid, adjusted for all allowances legitimately claimed by the sampled exporting producers. The elements listed by 
the traders were not added to the constructed normal value so there was no issue of comparability. This claim was 
therefore rejected. 
3.4. Dumping margin 
(391) For the sampled cooperating exporting producers, the Commission compared the weighted average normal value 
of each type of the like product with the weighted average export price of the corresponding type of the product 
concerned, in accordance with Article 2(11) and (12) of the basic Regulation. 
(392) On this basis, the definitive weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier 
price, duty unpaid, are as follows: 
Company 
Definitive dumping margin 
Shuangxin Group 
115,6 % 
Sinopec Group 
17,3 % 
Wan Wei Group 
193,2 % 
(393) For the cooperating exporting producers outside the sample, the Commission calculated the weighted average 
dumping margin, in accordance with Article 9(6) of the basic Regulation. Therefore, that margin was established 
on the basis of the margins of the sampled exporting producers. 
(394) On this basis, the definitive dumping margin of the cooperating exporting producers outside the sample is 80,4 %. 
(395) For all other exporting producers in the country concerned, the Commission established the dumping margin on 
the basis of the facts available, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. To this end, the Commission 
determined the level of cooperation of the exporting producers. The level of cooperation is the volume of exports 
of the cooperating exporting producers to the Union expressed as proportion of the total export volume – as 
reported in Eurostat import statistics – from the country concerned to the Union. 
(396) The level of cooperation in this case is high, because the imports from the cooperating exporting producers 
constituted practically the totality of the exports to the Union during the investigation period. On this basis, the 
Commission decided to base the residual dumping margin at the level of the cooperating sampled company with 
the highest dumping margin. 
(397) The definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty unpaid, are as 
follows: 
Company 
Definitive dumping margin 
Shuangxin Group 
115,6 % 
Sinopec Group 
17,3 % 
Wan Wei Group 
193,2 % 
Other cooperating companies 
80,4 % 
All other companies 
193,2 %
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/53
 
4. INJURY 
4.1. Definition of the Union industry and Union production 
(398) The like product was manufactured by four producers in the Union during the investigation period: Kuraray 
Europe GmbH; Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe S.L., Solutia Europe SPRL, Wacker Chemie AG. They constitute 
the ‘Union industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. 
(399) The total Union production during the investigation period was established at around [114 000 – 120 000] 
tonnes. The Commission established the figure on the basis of all the available information concerning the 
Union industry, such as information from the complainant and from all known producers in the Union. As 
indicated in recital (30), two Union producers were selected in the sample representing more than 80 % of the 
total Union production of the like product. 
4.2. Determination of the relevant Union market 
(400) To establish whether the Union industry suffered injury and to determine consumption and the various economic 
indicators related to the situation of the Union industry, the Commission examined whether and to what extent 
the subsequent use of the Union industry’s production of the like product had to be taken into account in the 
analysis. 
(401) PVA is used as an intermediate material for the production of paper and carton board; the production of PVB 
resins for the production of PVB-films; as a polymerisation aids for plastics; and for the production of emulsions 
and adhesives. The Commission found that a substantial part of the Union producers’ production was intended for 
captive use. The Union industry is mostly vertically integrated and PVA is often simply transferred within the same 
company or groups of companies for further downstream processing. 
(402) The distinction between the captive and the free market is relevant for the injury analysis because the products 
intended for captive use are not exposed to direct competition from imports. By contrast, the production intended 
for the free market is in direct competition with imports of the product concerned. 
(403) The Commission obtained data for the entire PVA activity and determined whether the production was intended 
for captive use or for the free market in order to provide a picture of the Union industry as complete as possible. 
(404) The Commission examined certain economic indicators relating to the Union industry on the basis of data for the 
free market. These indicators are: sales volume and sales prices on the Union market; market share; growth; export 
volume and prices; profitability; return on investment; and cash flow. Where possible and justified, the findings of 
the examination were compared with the data for the captive market in order to provide a complete picture of the 
situation of the Union industry. 
(405) However, other economic indicators could meaningfully be examined only by referring to the whole activity, 
including the captive use of the Union industry. These are: production; capacity, capacity utilisation; employment 
and productivity. They depend on the whole activity, whether the production is captive or sold on the free market. 
(406) After disclosure Cordial, Wacker and Wegochem argued that the General Disclosure Document did not include 
relevant information such as the production, production capacity, capacity utilization, sales volume and market 
share of the complainant. 
(407) In response to the companies’ request, the Commission reassessed the information provided in ranges and/or 
indexed form for production, production capacity and employment. Since this information aggregates data of four 
companies, these were disclosed in actual figures to the company and made available to interested parties in the 
open file. 
(408) Concerning the confidential data from the complainant, the Commission must reject the request of the companies. 
The basic Regulation requires the Commission to assess the injury to the Union industry and not to particular 
producers. In this case the data requested concern macro-indicators and included all known Union producers. 
There is no reason to single out the data of one single producer, especially when such data is confidential under 
Article 19 of the basic Regulation.
EN 
L 315/54 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(409) After disclosure, Wacker and the China Chamber of Commerce of Metals, Minerals and Chemicals (CCCMC) 
contested the Commission’s approach to the captive and free market analysis. Wacker argued that the Commission 
should make a clear assessment of the macro and microeconomic indicators only for the complainant to avoid a 
distorted injury assessment. 
(410) The Commission disagreed with Wacker’s claim. The Union industry is composed of four producers, of which two 
are active in the free market. Therefore, as explained above in recitals (402) to (405), while for certain economic 
indicators it was considered appropriate to refer only to the data for the free market other economic indicators 
could meaningfully be examined only by referring to the whole activity, including the captive use of the Union 
industry. 
(411) This claim was therefore rejected. 
4.3. Union consumption 
(412) The Commission established the Union consumption on the basis of (a) captive consumption on the basis of the 
captive use of the Union production, (b) the sales on the Union market of all known producers in the Union and 
(c) the import into the Union from all third countries as reported by Eurostat, thereby also considering the data 
submitted by the cooperating exporting producers in the country concerned. On this basis the Union consumption 
developed as follows: 
Table 1 
Union consumption (in tonnes) 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Total Union 
consumption 
214 000 – 219 000 210 000 – 215 000 225 000 – 230 000 
218 000 – 223 000 
Index 
100 
98 
106 
102 
Captive market 
50 000 – 55 000 
52 500 – 57 500 
57 500 – 62 500 
55 000 – 60 000 
Index 
100 
105 
116 
109 
Free market 
162 000 – 167 000 155 000 – 160 000 165 000 – 170 000 
162 000 – 167 000 
Index 
100 
96 
103 
100 
Source: Eurostat, complaint, verified questionnaire replies. 
(413) The captive consumption of own produced PVA increased by 9 % over the period considered. However the 
consumption on the free market, as well as the total consumption, remained relatively stable during the same 
period. 
(414) The total consumption went from roughly [214 000 – 219 000] tonnes in 2016 to around [218 000 – 223 000] 
tonnes in the IP, while the consumption on the free market remained stable around [162 000 – 167 000] tonnes 
in the same period. 
(415) The CCCMC argued that the Commission had not properly analysed the captive market and the captive 
consumption. More specifically, the CCCMC found that the Commission had not adequately informed parties 
about the part of the captive consumption and production in proportion to the total consumption and production, 
and how much production went to the free market. The party reiterated its claim after the second additional 
disclosure. 
(416) The Commission disagreed with this claim and clarified that the captive market consumption disclosed to 
interested parties corresponded to the captive production. Total production is mentioned in Table 4. Using the 
captive production figures in Table 1, the evolution of the free market production can be easily calculated. The 
Commission thus considered that parties were informed of all necessary parameters concerning the captive and the 
free market. In addition, the captive use of the Union industry was analysed extensively in section 5.2.4 ‘Captive 
use’ and disclosed to all interested parties. However, for ease of reference, the Commission added an additional line 
item ‘production volume on the free market’ to the revised Table 4.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/55
 
4.4. Imports from the country concerned 
4.4.1. Volume and market share of the imports from the country concerned 
(417) The Commission established the volume of imports on the basis of the Eurostat database. The market share of the 
imports was established by comparing import volumes with the Union free market consumption as reported in 
Table 1 above. 
(418) Imports into the Union from the country concerned developed as follows: 
Table 2 
Import volume (in tonnes) and market share 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Volume of imports 
from the PRC in 
tonnes 
35 285 
44 216 
54 326 
53 930 
Index 
100 
125 
154 
153 
Market share 
20 % – 25 % 
25 % – 30 % 
30 % – 35 % 
30 % – 35 % 
Index 
100 
131 
149 
153 
Source: Eurostat. 
(419) Imports from the country concerned increased by 53 % during the period considered, from around 35 000 tonnes 
in 2016 to almost 54 000 tonnes in the IP. The market share of the Chinese imports increased thus from 20 % – 
25 % in 2016 to 30 % – 35 % in the IP, on the free market. 
4.4.2. Prices of the imports from the country concerned and price undercutting 
(420) The Commission established the trends for the prices of imports on the basis of the Eurostat data. 
(421) The average price of imports into the Union from the country concerned developed as follows: 
Table 3 
Import prices (EUR/ kg) 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
PRC 
1,49 
1,39 
1,34 
1,49 
Index 
100 
94 
90 
100 
Source: Eurostat. 
(422) Import prices from the country concerned remained relatively stable in the period considered, around 
1,49 EUR/Kg. During the IP, on the basis of the Union average prices in Table 7, there was a price difference 
between the subject imports and the Union prices of [10 % – 40 %]. 
(423) Price undercutting of the imports was established on the basis of data of the cooperating exporting producers in 
the country concerned and domestic sales data provided by the Union industry for the period of investigation. The 
Commission determined the price undercutting during the investigation period by comparing: 
— the weighted average sales prices per product type of the Union producers charged to unrelated customers on 
the Union market, adjusted to an ex-works level; and 
— the corresponding weighted average prices per product type of the imports from the cooperating Chinese 
producers to the first independent customer on the Union market, established on a cost, insurance, freight (CIF) 
basis, with appropriate adjustments for customs duties and post-importation costs.
EN 
L 315/56 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(424) The price comparison was made on a type-by-type basis for transactions at the same level of trade, and after 
deduction of deferred discounts. When necessary, the import price of the product concerned imported from the 
PRC was duly adjusted when compared with the comparable product type sold by the Union industry. 
(425) As regards the differences in certain characteristics between the product concerned and the like product, as 
established above in recitals (73) to (77), the product types imported from the PRC compete with the product 
types produced and sold by the Union industry. However, as the ash content of the PVA produced and sold by the 
cooperating exporting producers was overall higher than the ash content of the PVA produced and sold by the 
Union industry, the Commission considered that an adjustment was warranted to ensure a fair comparison 
between the Chinese and EU product types on the basis of PCNs. The commission established the adjustment 
on the basis of the difference found for PVA imports with high and low ash content from third countries on the 
basis of information provided by users. The price difference was established at 10 %. 
(426) On this basis, an adjustment of 10 % was added to the CIF price of the PVA with high ash content sold by the 
cooperating exporting producers. 
(427) After disclosure Ahlstrom-Munksjö contested the 10 % adjustment because the Commission did not disclose the 
source of the data and therefore, interested parties did not have the possibility to assess the reliability of such data. 
(428) In this regard, the Commission clarified that, as explained above in recital (425), the adjustment was calculated on 
the basis of the price difference for PVA imports with high and low ash content from third countries for 
comparable PCNs collected and verified during the investigation from users (actual transactions). 
(429) Furthermore, as the methanol content and the packing have a negligible effect on the prices, as explained above in 
recital (81), the Commission concluded that for undercutting purposes it was appropriate to disregard these 
characteristics. 
(430) The result of the comparison was expressed as a percentage of the Union producers’ turnover during the 
investigation period. It showed a weighted average undercutting margin of between 28,8 % and 36,7 % by the 
imports from the country concerned on the Union market. 
(431) After disclosure several interested parties, namely Wacker, Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Sinopec Group, Wan Wei, Mengwei 
and Shuangxin contested the Commission’s calculations. 
(432) Wacker and the Chinese exporting producers claimed that 18 % of the exports from the PRC were not sold by the 
Union industry since for this quantity no comparable PCNs were found. The parties referred to the judgement in 
Case T-500/17 Hubei Xinyegang v the Commission in support of their claim that the Commission’s injury analysis 
was only based on a limited volume of the Union industry’s sales and not the whole like product. 
(433) First, the Commission noted that this judgment is under appeal before the Court of Justice and therefore cannot be 
taken as authoritative. Second, the basic Regulation does not require the Commission to carry out the price 
analysis for each product type separately. Rather, the legal requirement is a determination at the level of the 
like product. While PCNs are used as the starting point for such assessment, it does not mean that different PCNs 
are not in competition. Thus, the fact that certain PCNs of the Union industry were not compared to imports does 
not mean that they do not suffer price pressure from the dumped imports. Indeed, the establishment of price 
undercutting and underselling by first calculating margins at the level of the PCN is only an intermediary and 
preparatory step of that required price comparison. That step is not legally mandated, but constitutes the standard 
practice of the Commission. Third, in cases where sampling is applied it is not surprising that there is not a perfect 
matching between the imports of the sampled exporting producers and the sales of sampled Union industry. This 
does not necessarily mean that there are no imports of certain types, but that these types were not exported to the 
Union by the sampled exporting producers during the investigation period. Finally, as explained above in recitals
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/57
 
(58) to (62), the Commission concluded that all PVA grades competed with each other, at least to a certain extent. 
Therefore, the 18 % of the exports of the sampled exporting producers not sold by the Union industry does not 
constitute a separate category of the product concerned but competes in full with the remaining grades for which a 
matching was found. Moreover, the PCNs not sold by the Union industry were product types suitable for 
application in the adhesives, polymerisation and paper sectors, and therefore equivalent and in direct competition 
with other product types produced and sold by the Union industry for use in the same applications, even if not 
used for the quantification of price undercutting. 
(434) Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(435) The same parties requested additional disclosure concerning the detailed undercutting and underselling margins 
calculations per PCN. In particular, they requested: (i) the PCNs sold by the Union industry; (ii) the average 
quantities and sales prices sold per PCN; and (iii) the detailed undercutting and underselling margins per PCN. 
The same parties, with reference to the Jindal Court ruling (Case T-301/16, Jindal Saw Ltd and Jindal Saw Italia SpA v 
the Commission) claimed that the comparison between export prices and Union industry sales prices had not been 
made at the same level of trade since the large majority of the imports from the PRC were sold via unrelated 
traders and unrelated importers while the Union industry sold directly to final customers, and that the Commission 
should therefore perform a level of trade adjustment. 
(436) In line with Article 19 of the basic Regulation, the Commission could not reveal the requested data per product 
type. A disclosure of such level of detail would make it possible to, either directly or with addition of market 
intelligence, reconstruct confidential sales or production data of individual Union producers. 
(437) With regard to the claims on an adjustment for the level of trade, the Commission analysed the price on the Union 
market for sales made to end-users in comparison with sales to distributors and found no consistent differences in 
prices for the different levels of trade. Moreover, no other information on file pointed to the need of applying any 
level of trade adjustment. Therefore, the Commission concluded that an adjustment for the different level of trade 
was not warranted in the present case. 
(438) Wacker also argued that the Commission assessed the price effects of the subject imports on the Union industry 
for the entire period considered (beyond the undercutting calculation for the investigation period), based on the 
average import prices without any adjustment for the customs duty, the post-importation costs and the ash 
content. 
(439) This claim had to be dismissed. According to the usual practice of the Commission, undercutting margins were 
only calculated for the investigation period. The price effects of the entire period considered were however taken 
into account in terms of the evolution of the trend in import prices. In order to assess such a trend on a 
comparable basis over the years, no adjustments were needed. Moreover, even when taking into account the 
average post-importation costs and custom duties for the whole period considered, Chinese prices were still 
significantly lower than the Union industry prices, thus confirming the significant undercutting found for the 
investigation period. 
4.5. Economic situation of the Union industry 
4.5.1. General remarks 
(440) In accordance with Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation, the examination of the impact of the dumped imports on 
the Union industry included an evaluation of all economic indicators having a bearing on the state of the Union 
industry during the period considered. 
(441) For the injury determination, the Commission distinguished between macroeconomic and microeconomic injury 
indicators. The Commission evaluated the macroeconomic indicators on the basis of data provided by the 
complainant, cross-checked with the data provided by the other Union producers, users and importers and 
available official statistics (Eurostat). The macroeconomic data related to all Union producers. 
(442) The Commission evaluated the microeconomic indicators on the basis of data contained in the questionnaire 
replies from the sampled Union producers. As regards the second sampled Union producer, Wacker, it must be 
noted that the data provided did not cover the microeconomic indicators as the company produced only for its 
captive use and therefore had no sales of the like product on the free market. Therefore the microeconomic data 
related to the sampled Union producer selling of the free market only, i.e. Kuraray Europe GmbH. Both sets of data 
were found to be representative of the economic situation of the Union industry.
EN 
L 315/58 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(443) The macroeconomic indicators are: production, production capacity, capacity utilisation, sales volume, market 
share, growth, employment, productivity, magnitude of the dumping margin. 
(444) The microeconomic indicators are: average unit prices, unit cost, labour costs, inventories, profitability, cash flow, 
investments, return on investments, and ability to raise capital. 
4.5.2. Macroeconomic indicators 
4.5.2.1. P r o d u c t i o n , p r o d u c t i o n c a p a c i t y a n d c a p a c i t y u t i l i s a t i o n 
(445) The total Union production, production capacity and capacity utilisation developed over the period considered as 
follows: 
Table 4 
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Production volume 
(tonnes) 
129 310 
120 807 
123 492 
114 235 
Index 
100 
93 
95 
88 
Production capacity 
(tonnes) 
145 684 
145 684 
145 684 
145 684 
Index 
100 
100 
100 
100 
Capacity utilisation 
89 % 
83 % 
85 % 
78 % 
Index 
100 
93 
95 
88 
Production volume 
on the free market 
(tonnes) 
75 000 – 80 000 
62 500 – 67 500 
600 000 – 65 000 
55 000 – 60 000 
Index 
100 
86 
82 
75 
Source: Complaint, verified questionnaire replies. 
(446) During the period considered, the Union industry production volume decreased by 12 %. This decrease in 
production affected almost entirely the two sole Union producers that sell on the free market, as the production 
volume of the Union producers that produce only for captive consumption remained relatively stable. 
(447) The reported capacity stayed the same over the period considered. However, capacity utilisation decreased signifi­
cantly due to the significant reduction of the production scale operated by the Union producers selling on the free 
market, in order to reduce production costs and losses. Indeed, each of the two producers had to mothball part of 
their production lines in the period 2017 – 2018 due to the pressure of the dumped imports. 
(448) Therefore the decrease in capacity utilisation rate must be accounted exclusively to the reduction of production 
operated by the two Union producers selling on the free market. 
(449) After the second additional disclosure, Solutia argued that the decrease in capacity utilisation operated by the 
Union industry did not follow the trend of imports from the PRC, as it increased from 2017 to 2018, when 
imports increased, and decreased in the IP when also the imports from the PRC decreased.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/59
 
(450) This argument had to be dismissed. First, from 2017 to 2018, the capacity utilisation rate of the Union industry 
increased by 2 percentage points while the consumption on the free market increased by 7 percentage points. 
Moreover, in the same period the imports from the PRC increased by 23 % in volume and gained additional 14 % 
of market share. Therefore, even with a growing demand the Union industry could not significantly increase its 
output as its prices were constantly undercut by growing dumped imports. Second, in the IP, while the Union 
industry decreased its capacity utilisation rate by 7 points and Union consumption on the free market decreased by 
3 points, imports from the PRC remained stable (decreasing by 395 tonnes) and gained an additional 3 percentage 
points of market share. 
4.5.2.2. S a l e s v o l u m e a n d m a r k e t s h a r e 
(451) The Union industry’s sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 5 
Sales volume and market share 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Total sales volume on 
the Union free 
market (tonnes) 
60 000 – 65 000 
55 000 – 60 000 
45 000 – 50 000 
40 000 – 45 000 
Index 
100 
95 
82 
73 
Market share 
35 % – 40 % 
35 % – 40 % 
25 % – 30 % 
25 % – 30 % 
Index 
100 
99 
79 
73 
Source: Complaint, verified questionnaire replies. 
(452) Despite the relatively stable consumption, the Union industry sales volume on the free market decreased by 27 % 
over the period considered. 
(453) As a consequence, this translated in a decrease of market share of the Union industry on the free market from 
[35 % – 40 %] in 2016 to [25 % – 30 %] during the IP, i.e. a decrease by 27 %. 
4.5.2.3. G r o w t h 
(454) The Union consumption (free market) remained stable during the period considered, while the sales volume of the 
Union industry on the Union free market decreased by 27 %. The Union industry thus lost market share, contrary 
to the market share of the imports from the country concerned which increased significantly during the same 
period. 
4.5.2.4. E m p l o y m e n t a n d p r o d u c t i v i t y 
(455) Employment and productivity developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 6 
Employment and productivity 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Number of employees 
(FTE) 
370 
313 
324 
327 
Index 
100 
85 
88 
88 
Productivity (unit/ 
employee) 
350 
386 
382 
349 
Index 
100 
110 
109 
100 
Source: Complaint, verified questionnaire replies.
EN 
L 315/60 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(456) The level of the Union industry employment decreased over the period considered, due to the reduction in 
production operated by the Union producers selling on the free market. This resulted in a reduction of 
workforce by 12 %, without taking into consideration any indirect employment. 
(457) As the production volume decreased as well, the productivity of the Union industry remained relatively stable over 
the period considered. This shows that the union industry was willing to adapt to the changing market conditions 
in order to remain competitive. 
4.5.2.5. M a g n i t u d e o f t h e d u m p i n g m a r g i n a n d r e c o v e r y f r o m p a s t d u m p i n g 
(458) All dumping margins were significantly above the de minimis level. The impact of the magnitude of the actual 
margins of dumping on the Union industry was substantial, given the volume and prices of imports from the 
country concerned. 
(459) This is the second anti-dumping investigation regarding the product concerned. The previous investigation was 
terminated in 2008 with no imposition of measures and no data was available to assess the effects of possible past 
dumping. 
4.5.3. Microeconomic indicators 
4.5.3.1. P r i c e s a n d f a c t o r s a f f e c t i n g p r i c e s 
(460) The weighted average unit sales prices of the sampled Union producers to unrelated customers in the Union 
developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 7 
Sales prices in the Union 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Average unit sales 
price on the free 
market (EUR/ KG) 
1,50 – 2,50 
1,50 – 2,50 
1,75 – 2,75 
1,75 – 2,75 
Index 
100 
100 
111 
114 
Unit cost of 
production (EUR/KG) 
1,50 – 2,50 
1,50 – 2,50 
2,00 – 3,00 
2,00 – 3,00 
Index 
100 
104 
119 
124 
Source: Verified questionnaire replies. 
(461) The table above shows the evolution of the unit sales price of the Union industry on the Union free market as 
compared to the corresponding unit cost of production. Sales prices have been on average lower than the unit cost 
of production since the beginning of the period considered. 
(462) The unit cost of production of the Union industry increased by 24 % over the period considered. The increase in 
cost was driven mainly by higher costs for the principal raw material, VAM. Over the same period sales prices 
increased by 14 %, but this was not sufficient to offset the increase in the raw material prices due to the significant 
price pressure operated by the Chinese imports. 
4.5.3.2. L a b o u r c o s t s 
(463) The average labour costs of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows:
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/61
 
Table 8 
Average labour costs per employee 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Average labour costs per 
employee (Index) 
100 
109 
104 
109 
Source: Verified questionnaire replies. 
(464) During the period considered the average labour cost per employee went up by almost 9 %. This increasing trend 
was found in both sampled Union producers. 
4.5.3.3. I n v e n t o r i e s 
(465) Stock levels of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 9 
Inventories 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Closing stocks 
(tonnes) 
15 000 – 25 000 
5 000 – 15 000 
5 000 – 15 000 
5 000 – 15 000 
Index 
100 
64 
59 
60 
Source: Verified questionnaire replies. 
(466) Over the period considered the level of closing stocks decreased significantly, by 40 %. The decrease is due to a 
specific decision of the sampled Union producer selling on the free market. As the company faced losses on sales 
due to the pressure of dumped imports, it saw no economic justification for building up stocks when demand for 
its product had decreased. 
4.5.3.4. P r o f i t a b i l i t y , c a s h f l o w , i n v e s t m e n t s , r e t u r n o n i n v e s t m e n t s a n d a b i l i t y t o 
r a i s e c a p i t a l 
(467) Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments of the sampled Union producers developed over the 
period considered as follows: 
Table 10 
Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Profitability of sales 
in the Union to 
unrelated customers 
(% of sales turnover) 
– 0,5 % – 5,0 % 
– 5 % – 10 % 
– 0,5 % – 5,0 % 
– 10 % – 15 % 
Index 
100 
– 279 
– 199 
– 548 
Cash flow (KEUR) 
500 – 5 500 
15 000 – 20 000 
5 000 – 10 000 
– 500 – – 5 500 
Index 
100 
922 
535 
– 80
EN 
L 315/62 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation period 
Investments (KEUR) 
20 000 – 30 000 
10 000 – 20 000 
5 000 – 15 000 
5 000 – 15 000 
Index 
100 
49 
26 
28 
Return on invest­
ments 
– 0,5 % – 5,0 % 
– 2,5 % – 7,5 % 
– 0,5 % – 5,0 % 
– 7,5 % – 12,5 % 
Index 
100 
– 209 
– 132 
– 368 
Source: Verified questionnaire replies. 
(468) The Commission established the profitability of the sampled Union producer active in the open market by 
expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers on the free market in 
the Union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. 
(469) Profitability developed negatively over the period considered: losses were incurred during all the four years, from 
[– 0,5 % – 5 %] in 2016 to [– 10,0 % – 15 %] during the IP. This trend was affected mainly the price pressure 
exerted by the Chinese imports, which did not allow the sampled EU producer to increase prices in response to 
cost increases. 
(470) The net cash flow is the ability of the Union producers to self-finance their activities. The trend in net cash flow 
varied a lot during the period considered, mainly due to non-cash expenses such as depreciation, and deteriorated 
during the investigation period. 
(471) The return on investments is the profit in percentage of the net book value of investments. It remained negative 
overall over the period considered following a decreasing trend similar to the profitability one. Over the same 
period, the Union industry reduced the level of its investments by 72 %. The ability of the Union industry to raise 
capital has been severely affected by the losses incurred over the period considered, as can be seen from the 
decrease in investments. 
4.5.4. Conclusion on injury 
(472) All main injury indicators showed a negative trend during the period considered. The production volume of the 
Union industry decreased by around 12 % and its sales volume on the free market decreased by 27 %. Considering 
the relatively stable consumption, this translated into a decrease of market share on the free market from 
[35 % – 40 %] in 2016 to [25 % – 30 %] during the investigation period, i.e. a decrease by 10 percentage points. 
(473) While the sales price increased by 14 % over the period considered, this was not enough to offset the increase in 
the unit cost of production, despite the effort of the Union industry to improve efficiency by increasing the 
productivity per employee. In response to the pressure of dumped imports, the Union industry decreased 
production volumes, which in turn increased the cost per unit. This coupled with the increase in raw material 
prices, which the Union industry was not able to pass on, caused the depression and suppression of Union 
industry prices, and hence a decrease in profitability. 
(474) As a result of the above trends, the profitability of the Union industry went from [– 0,5 % – 5 %] in 2016 to 
[– 10,0 % – 15 %] in the IP. 
(475) As regards the captive market, the Commission analysed and considered its figures when appropriate, as explained 
above in section 4.2. 
(476) However, in this particular case the captive consumption represented around one quarter of total Union 
consumption and consisted, almost exclusively, of captive transfers within the same company or group of 
companies. Such internal transfers are not representative of actual market transactions because of the nature of 
intra-group transactions. Moreover, those transfers do not enter the free market because the product is fully used 
by the integrated producers for further processing. As a result, the captive market is not exposed to direct 
competition from imports from the country concerned. 
(477) Therefore, the Commission concluded that the performance of the Union industry could meaningfully be examined 
by referring mainly to the activity in the free market, as detailed above in recitals (404) and (405).
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/63
 
(478) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the Union industry suffered material injury within the 
meaning of Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation. 
(479) After disclosure, Wacker argued that the production capacity reduction of the Union industry had to be accounted 
to the second Union producer selling on the free market (i.e. Sekisui). According to Wacker, the reduction was a 
company business decision pre-investigation period, and not caused by the imports from the PRC. Wacker argued 
that the company deliberately decided to retract from the Union market and therefore the negative indicators like 
production, sales and employment should not be used as an evidence of injury. 
(480) The Commission disagreed with this interpretation. First, the evidence collected during the investigation indicates 
that the decrease in production and sales was caused by the price pressure of the imports from the PRC. There is 
no evidence that this conclusion would not be correct. Second, as explained above in recital (447), none of the two 
Union producers selling on the free market reduced, irreversibly, their production capacity. The producers just 
reduced their production output by not operating all their production lines. This reduction of the capacity 
utilisation took place during the period considered, and thus was taken into account as part of the assessment 
of the trends over the same period. Furthermore, the argument that the Union industry could not sell what it did 
not produce is erroneous. It is not economically viable to produce something that will not be possible to sell at a 
fair market price. 
(481) Wacker also argued that the decreased production and sales of Sekisui benefited the complainant, which increased 
its sales by 6 % between 2016 and 2017. However, the Commission noted that in the same period the Union 
industry decreased its total sales by 5 % while the Chinese exporting producers increased their sales on the Union 
market by 25 % and gained 7 percentage points of market share. The argument was therefore dismissed. 
(482) Furthermore, Wacker claimed that the Commission did not consider the export sales of the Union industry in its 
assessment as, in its opinion, the export statistics shows that PVA export sales by the Union producers represented 
a high portion of the EU industry’s free markets sales. The argument was repeated by CCCMC after the second 
additional disclosure. 
(483) This argument had to be dismissed. The information collected during the investigation showed that the export 
sales of the sampled Union producer selling on the free market remained relatively stable over the period 
considered and, more importantly, that they overall represented a negligible quantity when compared to the 
total sales of the Union producer on the Union free market. 
(484) Equally, Wacker and another party, Wegochem, claimed that the Commission did not analyse the importation and 
resales of the Union industry. The parties claimed that, in their opinion, the Union industry itself was responsible 
for a large share of the import volume from third countries. 
(485) First, the Commission noted that there were several producers in third countries other than the complainant and 
Sekisui. Second, the investigation revealed that the complainant’s resales were limited and represented [0,5 % –2 %] 
of the total sales of the Union producer on the Union free market during the period considered. Furthermore, these 
resales decreased by 50 % over the period considered. The claim was therefore rejected. 
(486) The same two parties further argued that some of the data reported in the General Disclosure document, namely 
the cash flow and the stock, were not consistent with the open version of the questionnaire reply of the 
complainant. 
(487) In this respect, the Commission clarified that certain data were amended and corrected by the Commission after 
the verification according to its usual practice. This explains the differences pointed out by those parties. 
5. CAUSATION 
(488) In accordance with Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the dumped imports 
from the country concerned caused material injury to the Union industry. In accordance with Article 3(7) of the 
basic Regulation, the Commission also examined whether other known factors could at the same time have injured 
the Union industry. The Commission ensured that any possible injury caused by factors other than the dumped 
imports from the country concerned was not attributed to the dumped imports. These factors are: imports from 
other third countries, the development of raw material costs, self-inflicted injury and the incorrect representation of 
data operated by one Union producer.
EN 
L 315/64 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
5.1. Effects of the dumped imports 
(489) Volume of imports from the country concerned and their market share both increased by 53 % over the period 
considered. This increase exceeded substantially the evolution of consumption in the free market over the same 
period, which decreased by [0,5 % – 2 %]. At the same time, the Union industry lost 27 % of sales volume and 
market share. Furthermore, the prices of imports from the country concerned, even if relatively stable over the 
period considered, undercut the Union industry prices by between 28,8 % and 36,7 % and by 30,0 % on average 
Consequently, the profitability of the Union industry was constantly declining and reached [– 10,0 % – 15 %] 
losses during the investigation period. 
(490) The analysis of the injury indicators in recitals (398) to (478) shows that the economic situation of the Union 
industry worsened during the period considered and this coincided with a significant increase of dumped imports 
from the country concerned, which were found to undercut the Union industry prices during the investigation 
period and causing significant price suppression, as the Union industry was not able to increase its prices in line 
with the increase of cost of production. 
(491) Moreover the information collected during the investigation showed that the different product type sold by the 
Chinese exporting producers compete in full with the product types sold by the Union industry, as explained above 
in section 2.3. 
(492) After disclosure, Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Cordial and Wacker argued that there was no coincidence in time between the 
increase in imports from the PRC and the worsening situation of the Union industry. In their opinion, the fact that 
the complainant’s profitability decreased significantly between 2016 and 2017 while its sales volume slightly 
increased could not be attributed to the dumped imports. They also pointed out that in the investigation 
period the Union industry lost 11 % of its sales volume while the Chinese prices increased. 
(493) Firstly, as explained above in recital (13), the Union industry initially tried to follow the Chinese dumped prices in 
order not lose market share, which explains the trends pointed out by the company in 2016 and 2017. During 
this period prices of the Union industry did not increase although cost of production continued to increase. 
Secondly, at the same time, the union industry lost 5 percentage points of sales volume while imports from the 
PRC increased 25 percentage points and their sales price decreased by 6 %. Furthermore, even if it is true that 
during the investigation period the import price from the PRC increased, they remained on average 29 % lower 
than the Union industry prices, while volumes remained constant. Finally, the Union industry cost of production 
increased by 5 points while its prices increased only by 3 percentage point. Thus, contrary to that claim, the 
negative trends observed for the Union industry do coincide with the increase in volumes and market share of 
imports from the PRC during the period considered. 
(494) The argument was therefore rejected. 
(495) Wacker also argued that the profitability of the complainant had a different trend than the one reported in its 
annual report for 2017. 
(496) The annual report refers to the global activity of the complainant out of which PVA is only a part. Therefore, no 
conclusion can be drawn as regards a single business segment from the aggregated figures. The Commission has 
collected, verified and drawn its conclusions on the basis of specific data. Thus, this argument was dismissed. 
5.2. Effects of other factors 
5.2.1. Imports from third countries 
(497) The volume of imports from other third countries developed over the period considered as follows: 
Table 11 
Imports from third countries 
Country 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Taiwan 
Volume (tonnes) 
20 965 
19 796 
23 602 
22 674 
Index 
100 
94 
113 
108
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/65
 
Country 
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Market share 
12 % – 15 % 
12 % – 15 % 
13 % – 16 % 
13 % – 16 % 
Index 
100 
98 
109 
108 
Average price (EUR/KG) 
1,57 
1,56 
1,56 
1,71 
Index 
100 
99 
99 
109 
USA 
Volume (tonnes) 
23 700 
15 643 
23 379 
23 427 
Index 
100 
66 
99 
99 
Market share 
12 % – 15 % 
9 % – 12 % 
12 % – 15 % 
12 % – 15 % 
Index 
100 
69 
96 
99 
Average price (EUR/KG) 
1,75 
2,03 
1,84 
1,90 
Index 
100 
116 
105 
108 
Japan 
Volume (tonnes) 
14 980 
15 410 
14 655 
14 522 
Index 
100 
103 
98 
97 
Market share 
8 % – 11 % 
9 % – 12 % 
7 % – 10 % 
8 % – 11 % 
Index 
100 
107 
94 
97 
Average price (EUR/KG) 
2,33 
2,50 
2,65 
2,82 
Index 
100 
107 
114 
121 
Other third 
countries 
Volume (tonnes) 
7 419 
3 885 
2 813 
4 033 
Index 
100 
52 
38 
54 
Market share 
3 % – 5 % 
2 % – 4 % 
1 % – 3 % 
2 % – 4 % 
Index 
100 
55 
37 
55 
Average price (EUR/KG) 
2,29 
1,98 
2,14 
2,23 
Index 
100 
86 
93 
97 
Total of all third 
countries except the 
country concerned 
Volume (tonnes) 
67 064 
54 734 
64 448 
64 656 
Index 
100 
82 
96 
96 
Market share 
38 % – 43 % 
30 % – 35 % 
36 % – 41 % 
37 % – 42 % 
Index 
100 
85 
93 
96 
Average price (EUR/KG) 
1,88 
1,98 
1,93 
2,06 
Index 
100 
106 
103 
109 
Source: Eurostat, complaint, verified questionnaire replies.
EN 
L 315/66 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(498) Imports from other third countries originated mainly from Taiwan, USA and Japan. Some of the Japanese and 
American exporters are related to the Union industry, while the Taiwanese exporter is related to one of the Chinese 
exporting producers. 
(499) Contrary to arguments raised by some interested parties, and reiterated after disclosure by Wacker and Solutia, 
imports from other third countries, even if significant in terms of market share, decreased by 4 % over the period 
considered and the loss of market share of the Union industry benefitted exclusively the Chinese exporting 
producers. Import prices from these third countries, although being on average 11 % cheaper than the prices 
of the Union industry, increased by 9 % over the same period. In particular, import prices from the largest exporter 
other than the PRC i.e. Taiwan, increased by 9 %, import prices from USA increased by 8 % while import prices 
from Japan grew by 21 %. 
(500) Therefore, imports from other third countries were not the source of injury described in recitals (440) to (478) 
above. 
(501) After disclosure Wacker, the second sampled Union producer, argued that the commission did not correctly 
estimate the imports from Japan and Taiwan. According to the company, the Commission did not take into 
account the quantities imported under the inward processing regime from both countries and that, in its view, 
parts of the imports from Japan were in fact copolymer PVA, hence outside of the scope of the product concerned. 
(502) The argument of the inward processing had to be dismissed. The inward processing regime refers to goods that are 
imported in order to be used in the customs territory of the Union in one or more processing operations and are 
not therefore released for sales on the Union free market. 
(503) As regards the imports of copolymer PVA from Japan, the Commission confirmed that in fact the TARIC code 
3905 30 00 10 covers exclusively imports of certain copolymer for use as protective coating of wafers during the 
manufacturing of semiconductors ( 94 ). 
(504) After further checks, the quantities imported under the TARIC code 3905 30 00 10 into the EU were removed 
from the imports not only from Japan but from all sources, including the PRC. The imports volumes, consumption 
and market shares were revised accordingly. 
(505) Wacker also argued that the Commission only focused on the average import prices from USA. In Wacker views 
certain imports are concentrated in a few Member States at a much lower prices than the average import prices 
considered by the Commission and this could therefore have had an impact of the complainant’s sales. 
(506) The argument had to be rejected as Wacker claim and data do not contradict the assessment carried out by the 
Commission. A similar variety of price pattern could be observed for the union industry sales as well as the sales 
prices also reflect the product types requested by the user industry active in each Member state. Contrary to 
Wacker argument, the fact that the different PVA grades are largely interchangeable does not imply that all the 
PVA grade should have the same price. Moreover, even if true that in the investigation period the import price 
from USA to Belgium was 4 % cheaper than the average import price, imports to Germany in the same period 
were 13 % more expensive than the average price. 
(507) Ahlstrom-Munksjö also argued, after disclosure, that the complainant sold from its USA plants PVA at lower prices 
than the grades produced in the EU. 
(508) However the information provided referred to different grades of PVA, therefore no comparison is possible. 
Moreover, the grade imported from the USA is a copolymer, hence outside the scope of the product concerned. 
In addition it must be noted that from the information provided it is evident that the major price increase operated 
by the complainant in the EU occurred exactly in the month when it mothballed one of its production lines. Hence 
confirming that the company had to increase prices overall to compensate for the lost production and the 
increased fixed costs. 
(509) Therefore, the argument was dismissed. 
5.2.2. Increase of raw material cost 
(510) One user argued that the increase of the principal raw material (VAM) cost caused the injury. It argued that the 
complainant, not being integrated upstream, has to purchase VAM on the market and is therefore less cost efficient 
than the Chinese exporting producers or the other Union producers that produce VAM for their own 
consumption.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/67 
( 94 ) Viscous preparation, essentially consisting of poly(vinyl alcohol) (CAS RN 9002-89-5).
 
(511) Contrary to this argument, the information collected during the investigation confirmed that the complainant 
purchases VAM at a cost in line with prevailing prices as observed from other sources. In this regard the increase 
in VAM prices also had influence on other producers worldwide as demonstrated by the price evolution of the 
Chinese and third country exporting producers. 
(512) In addition, as explained above in recital (462), due to the significant price pressure operated by the Chinese 
imports, the Union industry was not able to increase its prices in line with the increase of raw materials costs. This, 
coupled with the significant loss in sales volume caused the depression of the Union industry prices, and hence 
profitability. 
(513) This claim was therefore rejected. 
(514) After disclosure Wacker argued that the VAM prices decreased in the first quarter of 2019, and therefore the 
complainant should have decreased its production cost in the investigation period accordingly. In addition CCCMC 
argued also that the commission failed to analyse the VAM price evolution of the four year period of the IIP. 
(515) These arguments had to be rejected. Wacker argues that the VAM price decreased in the first quarter of 2019 but 
did not mention that the same price increased again in the second quarter by 3 % and it was 12 % higher in the 
fourth quarter of 2019. Therefore a quarter by quarter variation is not meaningful as companies take into account 
the projected price development when accounting for the cost of production (and the sales price) for the year to 
come. As regards CCCMC claim, the information collected during the investigation showed that the average market 
price of VAM in the Union increased by 20 % over the period considered. 
5.2.3. Self-inflicted injury 
(516) Two other users argued that the injury suffered by the Union industry was self-inflicted as one of the sampled 
Union producers disproportionately increased the selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses over the 
period considered. 
(517) The investigation revealed that the increase of SG&A in the PVA business was mainly driven by the decrease in 
sales. Since the vast majority of SG&A are fixed costs, the decrease in sales, and the consequent drop in production 
quantity increased the share of these costs over the unit cost of production. As mentioned in recital (473), the 
decrease in sales was a consequence of the pressure of the dumped imports in the Union market. Therefore, the 
increase of SG&A was closely linked to the dumped imports and cannot be considered self-inflicted injury. 
(518) After disclosure Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Wacker and Wegochem reiterated their claim that the complainant did not 
significantly reduced production during the period considered and therefore the fixed cost should not have 
increased. 
(519) As explained in recital (447), both the Union producers selling on the free market had to mothball one production 
line during the period considered as a direct consequence of the dumped imports. Therefore, the reduced capacity 
utilization rate affected the fixed costs of both producers. 
(520) Ahlstrom-Munksjö and Wacker also claimed that the planned six-week maintenance shutdown of the 
complainant’s plant contributed to inflate its cost of production. In addition Wacker argued that the complainant’s 
cost of production was disproportionately high. 
(521) As regards the plant shutdown, the investigation revealed that it did not significantly affected the complainant cost 
of production as it was a routine operation planned well in advance. Moreover, the cost of production of the 
complainant increased by 4 percentage points in 2017 (the year of the shutdown) but increased by 15 percentage 
points in 2018, when dumped imports further increased reaching a market share of [30 % –35 %]. 
(522) As regards that the cost, because Wacker produces PVA for its captive consumption only, it has no selling and 
administrative expenses (and therefore lower cost overall). Moreover, the information collected during the inves­
tigation showed that the complainant cost of production was in line with the average cost of production of the 
PVA industry.
EN 
L 315/68 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(523) These arguments are therefore rejected. 
(524) After disclosure Wegochem argued that, in its view, the complainant’s low profitability was due to excessive 
depreciation costs. 
(525) The Commission confirms that the depreciation costs by the complainant were verified and revised to only include 
the cost pertaining exclusively to the product concerned. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(526) Another user argued, and reiterated the argument after disclosure, that the loss in market share suffered by the 
Union industry was due to their own business decisions, as the sharp increase of prices operated between 2017 
and the IP forced certain users of the product concerned to shift to the cheaper Chinese suppliers in order to 
remain competitive. 
(527) Even if there was a coincidence in time between the price increase and the sales decline, this is a direct 
consequence of the dumped imports from the country concerned. PVA has several applications and is 
produced in different grades. As explained above in recital (60), some of these grades have a broad range of 
application and, generally, a lower price, while other more specialised grades designed for applications with narrow 
specifications (such as pharmaceutical products or the PVB-film production) are on average more expensive. 
(528) The Union industry has the ability to supply all the different segments of the downstream industry. However, the 
imports of PVA from China, at prices undercutting the Union prices by 29,9 % on average forced the Union 
industry to reduce its production level and concentrate its sales on grades with somewhat higher selling prices on 
average,. The investigation showed, however, that an increasing price pressure also to these grades, which has been 
deteriorating the situation of the Union industry even further. 
(529) This argument is therefore rejected. 
(530) One of the sampled unrelated importers claimed that the complainant itself was dumping on the Union market, 
and the injury would be therefore self-inflicted, providing evidence of a sale of PVA at a very low price to the 
Union market, produced by the related company of the complainant based in Singapore. The argument was 
repeated after disclosure. 
(531) The investigation revealed that the allegedly dumped sale from Singapore was actually the sale of a batch of off- 
spec PVA. This particular type of PVA is usually the result of errors in the production process hence it was sold at 
a very low price on the market as it did not fit in the general product specifications. 
(532) The argument is therefore rejected. 
(533) Another user claimed that the declining sales volumes of the Union industry were not caused by the dumped PVA 
imports from the country concerned but it was provoked by the complainant’s refusal to supply its products to 
certain users and therefore the material injury was self-inflicted by these anti-competitive practices. 
(534) As explained also above in section 2.2, the Union industry is capable and willing to supply all the different grades 
of PVA. No specific evidence of refusal to supply was provided by the user. On the contrary, as explained above in 
recital (13) the information collected during the investigation clearly showed that the industry was capable and 
willing to supply any user of the product concerned. 
(535) The user reiterated the argument after disclosure but did not provide any conclusive evidence of the alleged refusal 
to supply as the documents provided referred only to a disagreement about prices between two parties. 
(536) The argument was therefore dismissed. 
5.2.4. Captive use 
(537) One user argued that the macroeconomic data provided by the Union producer that was removed from the sample 
could be misleading, as the decrease in sales of PVA reported could have been a deliberate business decision in 
order to increase the captive consumption of PVA and therefore the sales in the downstream segments.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/69
 
(538) As explained in recital (441), the Commission evaluated the microeconomic and macroeconomic indicators on the 
basis of data contained in the verified questionnaire replies and in the complaint, cross-checked with the data 
provided by the Union producers, users and importers and available official statistics (Eurostat). 
(539) Given the high level of cooperation, the Commission was able to obtain a thorough picture of the PVA captive and 
free markets, together with a very detailed picture of the different downstream segments and their consumption of 
PVA. 
(540) In any event, as regards the decrease in sales of PVA of the above mentioned Union producer, the information 
collected during the investigation showed a parallel decrease in the production of PVA of the same magnitude, 
over the period considered. Therefore the Commission found that the decrease in sales was not caused by any 
increase of captive consumption. 
(541) This argument is therefore rejected. 
(542) Two users argued that the complainant’s decision to concentrate on captive consumption for PVB-film production 
was the cause of the injury suffered by the Union industry. 
(543) However, the investigation revealed that the captive consumption of the complainant increased during the period 
considered at a significantly smaller pace than the decrease in sales quantity. Moreover, the complainant’s captive 
consumption of PVA has remained stable over the last two years and therefore would not explain the deteriorating 
situation in recent years and in particular during the investigation period. At the same time, the industry has still at 
least 30 000 tonnes of spare production capacity that cannot be absorbed by the PVB-film production lines. 
(544) The claim is therefore rejected. 
(545) Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Solutia, Wacker and Wegochem repeated after disclosure that the complainant’s captive 
consumption increased significantly over the period considered (i.e. by 25 %). Therefore, the Commission 
statement that its captive consumption increased during the period considered at a significantly smaller pace 
than the decrease in sales quantity was wrong. 
(546) The Commission confirms its statement was correct and clarifies that, even if in percentage terms the captive 
consumption of the complainant increased during the period considered, the sales decrease in absolute quantities 
exceeded significantly the increase of tonnes of PVA used for the captive consumption by the complainant. 
(547) The argument was therefore dismissed. 
5.3. Conclusion on causation 
(548) There was a clear coincidence in time between the substantial increase of imports from the country concerned and 
the deterioration of the situation of the Union industry. 
(549) The Commission has also investigated other factors of injury and has not found any other factor which 
contributed to the material injury suffered by the Union industry. 
(550) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the material injury to the Union industry was caused by 
the dumped imports from the country concerned and that no other factors, considered individually or collectively, 
contributed to the material injury suffered by the Union industry. 
6. UNION INTEREST 
(551) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether it could clearly conclude 
that it was not in the Union interest to adopt measures in this case, despite the determination of injurious 
dumping. The determination of the Union interest was based on an appreciation of all the various interests 
involved, including those of the Union industry, importers and users. 
6.1. Interest of the Union industry 
(552) The investigation has shown that the Union industry is suffering material injury because of the effects of dumped 
imports from the country concerned that undercut Union industry’s prices causing significant loss of market share 
and leading to losses during the period considered, as elaborated in recitals (440) to (550) above.
EN 
L 315/70 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(553) The Union industry will benefit from measures, which would likely prevent a further surge of imports from the 
PRC at very low prices. Without measures, Chinese producers will continue to dump PVA on the Union market 
preventing the Union industry from selling PVA at an adequate profit and thus causing further material injury to 
the Union industry. 
6.2. Interest of unrelated importers 
(554) Six unrelated importers were willing to cooperate. Three were sampled and provided questionnaire replies. All the 
three importers opposed the imposition of measures, claiming it will be detrimental to their business and against 
the interest of users of PVA in the Union. 
(555) For the sampled unrelated importers, the weight represented by the product concerned compared to the total 
turnover of these importers varies, ranging from 10 % to 40 %. The jobs allocated to the product concerned were 
estimated at around 20 employees. 
(556) All the three importers were profitable and the profit margin appeared to be adequate to absorb at least part of the 
duties. Furthermore, the Commission noted that imports from other third countries still hold the largest market 
share in the Union. Therefore, the imposition of measures would not have a considerable negative price effect on 
importers, but some of them would need to switch sources, which would entail additional costs for these 
importers. 
(557) One importer claimed that the imposition of measures would harm the importers as the final Union users will 
cease to purchase PVA originating in the PRC and will start sourcing alternative non-PVA based products, or 
blends of PVA and other products produced outside the Union. 
(558) In this regard, first of all, it must be noted that the impact of PVA on the users costs varies from segment to 
segment, as explained below in section 6.3. 
(559) Moreover the investigation revealed that the possibility of replacing PVA with alternative products, even if possible 
in theory, would be very complicated and the increase of PVA cost would not likely be the decisive factor. Some of 
the alternative products are already significantly more expensive than PVA and not environmentally friendly, as 
they are not biodegradable like PVA. 
(560) As far as the blends of products are concerned, the investigation revealed that transport costs play a more 
important role than the raw material costs. These blends are usually made of PVA and other additives 
dissolved in water. The water percentage (and weight) makes therefore the transport more expensive. The 
sourcing of these PVA-based blends from producers located outside the Union is therefore not likely to 
increase significantly because of anti-dumping duties on the product concerned. 
(561) Therefore this claim was rejected. 
(562) Two importers claimed that the Union production of PVA was insufficient to meet the demand and therefore the 
EU market for PVA was highly import reliant, as demonstrated also by the tariff-free quota for imports of PVA of 
15 000 tonnes/year established as of 2014 by the Council of the European Union ( 95 ). 
(563) In this respect, the biggest suppliers of the EU market were still PVA producers located in third countries (namely 
Taiwan, USA and Japan), which already accounted for [37 % – 42 %] of the Union consumption on the free 
market. Moreover, the investigation has shown that several users sourced PVA from different suppliers located in 
the PRC, from the Union industry and from producers located in third countries at the same time. Finally it must 
be noted that the Union industry has still about 30 000 tonnes of spare capacity that can supply the Union 
market. 
(564) Hence, since the PVA demand is strong, the imposition of measures would not contribute to the risk of a shortage 
of supply, given the level of the proposed duties and the alternative sources available. This claim was therefore 
rejected. 
(565) One importer claimed that the imposition of measures would harm the small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) 
in the Union, especially in the context of the actual COVID-19 crisis. It argued that the anti-dumping duties on 
PVA originating in the country concerned would create additional disruption in a sector already severely affected 
by the above-mentioned crisis.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/71 
( 95 ) Council Regulations 1340/2014; 713/2014; 2015/2448; 2016/2389; 2018/2070.
 
(566) In this respect, the Commission noted that the impact of the proposed anti-dumping measures on the users’ costs 
varied from segment to segment, and had been thoroughly assessed as explained below in section 6.3. 
(567) Furthermore, given the high level of cooperation, the Commission was able to obtain a thorough picture of the 
PVA captive and free markets, together with a very detailed picture of the different downstream segments. 
(568) Finally, the Commission analysed the economic situation of both the Union industry and users also in light of the 
importance of the supply stability as, without the Union industry, the Union would lose about [50 % – 60 %] of its 
supply capacity ( 96 ) of a critical material, such as PVA. 
(569) The claim was therefore rejected. 
6.3. Interest of users 
(570) As explained above in recital (55), PVA is used as an additive, precursor or agent by mainly four Union user 
industries in: (i) production of PVB resins for the production of PVB-films; (ii) the production of polymerisation 
application and emulsions; (iii) production of paper and carton board; and (iv) production of adhesives. 
(571) PVB producers were the biggest users of PVA, accounting for around 40 % of the PVA consumption in the Union. 
Polymerisation accounted for around 20 % while paper chemicals and adhesive production accounted, respectively, 
for 16 % and 14 % of the total consumption of PVA. 
(572) Upon initiation, 49 known users in the Union were contacted and invited to cooperate. One PVB producer: 
Solutia; three paper and carton board producers: Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Papierfabrik August Koehler and Paul & Co; 
three producers in the polymerisation and emulsions segment: Wacker, FAR Polymers and Celanese; and one 
adhesive producer: Cordial, came forward. All of them opposed potential measures on the imports of PVA 
originating in the country concerned, except for Celanese, who took a neutral stance. 
6.3.1. PVB-film producers 
(573) As regards the main application of PVA, (PVB film), it has to be noted that the complainant itself is in direct 
competition with the users of the product concerned in the PVB sector, as part of its PVA production is used 
captively for the production of PVB film. 
(574) PVB resin is produced by acetalisation of PVA (reaction of PVA with Butyraldehyde) and it is then mixed with 
plasticizer and extruded to produce PVB film. PVA represents up to 27 % of the cost of manufacturing of PVB. PVB 
film is mainly used as a layer between two glass sheets in the automotive sector (windshields) or in the building 
sector (security glass). 
(575) Solutia was the biggest PVB-film producer in the Union. Together with the complainant and the other Union 
producer selling on the free market, they represented almost the totality of PVB-film production in the Union. The 
user also produced PVA for its own internal consumption. The company accounted for almost 1/5 of the total 
Union consumption of PVA (captive and free market). 
(576) The user claimed that anti-dumping measures on PVA would have widespread negative consequences in the PVB- 
film sector. Since the complainant was, at the same time, an important PVB-film producer as well as a PVA 
producer and supplier, any anti-dumping measure would affect not only the cost of production of the downstream 
product, but would also affect competition with PVB producers such as the user. This claim was repeated after 
disclosure by Solutia and Wegochem. Moreover, the user claimed that the new plant for production of water- 
soluble PVB film that the complainant is planning to open in Poland will increase even further the complainant’s 
captive consumption of PVA and will sharpen the lack of Union capacity in terms of PVA supply. These arguments 
were reiterated by Solutia after the second additional disclosure. 
(577) Firstly, whilst the majority of Union producers of PVA and PVB-film were vertically integrated, it must be noted 
that each of them decided to concentrate its production capacity on the upstream or downstream segment for its 
own business strategy. In this respect, the user itself was a PVA producer and a PVB-film producer exactly like the 
other two Union producers. Moreover the production of water-soluble films is mainly based on PVA copolymers, 
which are outside the scope of the product concerned and are sourced from production plants in third countries, 
and cannot therefore affect the complainant’s supply capacity of standard (homopolymer) PVA.
EN 
L 315/72 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 96 ) Total free market and captive consumption.
 
(578) Secondly, the investigation has shown that the user had a multi-sourcing strategy producing PVA for its own 
consumption and extensively using alternative sources of supply of PVA from the Union industry, the exporting 
producers in the PRC and the producers in third countries. Moreover, as explained recital (563), the Union industry 
has still 30 000 tonnes of spare capacity to supply the Union market and the level of anti-dumping duties will not 
prevent Solutia to continue sourcing PVA from the PRC, as explained in recital (588). 
(579) Finally, the investigation revealed that the impact of the proposed anti-dumping duties on the user’s cost of 
production and profitability, given the share of imports from the country concerned in its total PVA consumption 
and the share of PVA in its cost of production, would be limited even with the measures in force. 
(580) As regards the alleged risk of anti-competitive behaviour by the Union industry the Commission notes that no 
evidences were provided supporting this statement and moreover the union industry has constantly supplied large 
quantities of PVA to the PVB industry. In addition the investigation revealed also that the PVB industry source PVA 
via supply contracts that shield it from price fluctuation and supply shortage. Finally, it must be noted that the 
trade defence instruments allows the Commission to review the proposed measures in the interest of the users in 
case of conclusive evidence of anti-competitive practices. 
(581) Given the above, these claims were rejected. 
(582) Solutia also requested an exemption from the proposed anti-dumping duties under the end-use regime for the 
production of PVB film. The company claimed that the proposed measures would have a very heavy financial 
impact for the profitability of PVB film production, that few suppliers could meet the specifications and that the 
product is not interchangeable. 
(583) The Commission assessed the company’s request on the basis of all the information collected during the inves­
tigation and the comments received after disclosure. 
(584) Contrary to the argument of Solutia, the investigation established, as explained above, that the impact of the 
proposed anti-dumping duties on the user’s cost of production and profitability would be limited. 
(585) Moreover, Solutia had a multi-sourcing strategy, producing PVA for its own consumption, as well as extensively 
using multiple sources of supply of PVA from the Union industry, the exporting producers in the PRC and the 
producers in third countries. Even if it is true that the qualification of a new PVA source is a difficult and lengthy 
process, there are three other producers worldwide capable of supplying ‘Low-Ash NMWD PVA’. Moreover, the 
Commission notes that the level of the anti-dumping duties would not prevent any supplier from the PRC to 
continue to export PVA at a fair price. Finally, PVB film is the main downstream application for PVA, and Solutia 
is one of the market leaders in this segment. As a result, granting such an exemption under end use control would 
risk to seriously undermine the effect of the measures. The request was therefore rejected. 
(586) After the second additional disclosure, Solutia claimed that the Commission did not explain the data and the 
reasoning used to qualify the impact on its profitability as ‘negligible’. Moreover the company argued that it needed 
to have access to all PVA suppliers at reasonable prices to maintain security of supplies and a reasonable profit­
ability and therefore, the Commission failed to justify how the level of the anti-dumping duties would not prevent 
Solutia’s supplier from the PRC to continue to export. 
(587) The Commission clarified that the impact on the profitability of Solutia was calculated as follows: first, the 
Commission established the share of the cost of PVA sourced from the PRC in the total cost of production of 
the company, as verified on spot. The Commission then increased the company’s PVA cost by the proposed duty, 
applied on the quantity of PVA it sourced from the PRC. The Commission found that the impact of the duties on 
Solutia were indeed meaningful in absolute figures, but limited when put in proportion to the total cost structure 
of the company. Furthermore, the Commission did not take into account certain assumptions made by the 
company concerning the future evolution of PVA prices as the facts suggested that these assumptions were not 
appropriate and Solutia provided no underlying evidence to the contrary. For confidentiality reasons, further details 
and the figures used in the Commission’s calculation were provided in a separate document to the company only.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/73
 
(588) Therefore, in the Commission’s view, given the limited impact on Solutia’s profitability, the anti-dumping duties 
would not prevent the company to continue sourcing PVA from the PRC, hence the company will maintain access 
to all its PVA suppliers. In addition, contrary to the claims of the company that the measures would affect also 
their competitive position vis-à-vis other PVB producers, the limited impact on Solutia’s cost structure and profit­
ability also indicates that there would be a limited impact on their competitiveness. 
(589) The argument was therefore rejected. 
(590) Solutia also claimed that the fact that PVB film is the main downstream application for PVA, and Solutia is one of 
the market leaders in this segment are mere assumptions not supported by facts. 
(591) Contrary to this argument, the information collected during the investigation showed that PVB film production 
accounts for at least [30 % – 40 %] of the total PVA consumption in the Union and therefore it is, by far, the 
largest within the different downstream applications of PVA. Moreover, the Commission noted that, based on the 
data provided by the company itself in its questionnaire reply, out of four PVB film producers active in the Union 
market, Solutia had a significant market share and therefore it can be reasonably considered as one of the market 
leaders. 
6.3.2. Polymerisation application and emulsions producers 
(592) PVA is also used in polymerization applications as it facilitates the precise control of the grain formation and the 
resulting structure in emulsions and paints to regulate the viscosity of the final product. 
(593) Two users, FAR Polymer and Celanese, and the second sampled Union producer of PVA which produced PVA only 
for its captive consumption, Wacker, came forward and cooperated in the proceeding. FAR Polymer and Wacker 
opposed the potential measures claiming that the imposition of anti-dumping measures would not be in the 
interest of the Union. 
(594) In addition, Wacker argued that the Union PVA production was insufficient to meet the demand for this product 
and therefore the EU market for PVA was highly import reliant. In its opinion, imports from the country 
concerned have filled the market gap which cannot be filled by other countries. 
(595) Moreover, the company claimed that, with the anti-dumping duties in force, the Chinese exporting producers 
would be prevented to access the market. Therefore, the two Union producers selling on the free market (which 
are related to exporting producers in USA, Japan and Singapore) would dominate the Union market and would be 
able to impose higher prices which will be detrimental for the Union users. 
(596) Both users reiterated their arguments after disclosure. 
(597) As regards the first point, the investigation has shown that the impact on the user’s profitability will be negligible, 
even with anti-dumping duties in force, as the share of PVA in the cost of production of the users operating in this 
segment represents [3 % – 7 %] of the total cost. 
(598) As far as the supply stability is concerned, as explained above in recital (563), the Union industry has at least 
30 000 tonnes of spare capacity. Moreover, the biggest suppliers of the EU market were PVA producers located in 
third countries (namely Taiwan, USA and Japan), which already accounted for [37 % – 42 %] of the Union 
consumption. Finally, it must be noted that the sampled Union producer had a multi sourcing strategy and 
therefore do not source its PVA consumption exclusively from the producers located in the PRC. 
(599) With regards to the last point it must be noted that: 
(600) Firstly, as described in recital (497) and (498), the biggest exporter to the Union market (after the PRC) was 
Taiwan, with a market share of [13 % – 16 %], whose producers are not related to the Union industry. 
(601) Secondly, significant quantities were imported also from USA and Japan ([12 % – 15 %] and [8 % – 11 %] market 
share, respectively) where there are at least three producers not related to the Union industry. Moreover, imports 
from other third countries, even if decreasing during the period considered, still held the largest market share on 
the Union free market (around [37 % – 42 %]) and their prices were on average 11 % cheaper than the prices of 
the Union industry.
EN 
L 315/74 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(602) Thirdly, as explained in recital (598), Wacker already sourced its PVA consumption from several different sources. 
(603) Finally, it is noted that anti-dumping measures aim to re-establish a fair competition and a level playing field in the 
Union market but do not aim to prevent imports from the country concerned. In this specific case, the inves­
tigation established that anti-dumping duties would not prevent the users of PVA to continue to source at a fair 
price from the PRC, as supported by the findings outlined in recital (597), namely that duties would have a 
minimal impact on the cost and profitability of the users in the polymerisation and emulsion segment. 
(604) Given the above, these claims were rejected. 
(605) Wacker requested to be granted an exemption from the proposed anti-dumping duties under the end-use regime 
under Article 254 of the Union Customs Code. In its request, Wacker argued that it needed the alternative of an 
additional qualified supplier to avoid facing a situation of supply refusal from the Union industry. Moreover, the 
imposition of duties, in Wacker’s opinion, will negatively affect PVA market prices. 
(606) The Commission assessed the company’s request on the basis of the all information collected during the inves­
tigation and the comments received after disclosure. 
(607) First, as explained above, Wacker already sourced a significant part of its purchases from the Union industry, and 
did not provide any evidence of any refusal of supply by the Union producers. In addition, the investigation 
revealed that after the Covid-19 pandemic started the complainant provided additional volume of PVA at short 
notice to different users in the Union. Second, as regards the alleged risk of anti-competitive behaviour by the 
Union industry the Commission noted that no evidences was provided supporting this statement. Moreover, in the 
Commission’s view, the possible alternative sources of supply from third countries significantly limited this risk. 
Finally, polymerisation and emulsions are one of the main downstream application for PVA, and Wacker is one of 
the market leaders in this segment. As a result, granting such an exemption under end use control would risk to 
seriously undermine the effect of the measures. Therefore the request was rejected. 
6.3.3. Paper and carton board producers 
(608) PVA is used to improve the strength, absorbance and appearance of paper and carton board products, in coated 
paper and in barrier coatings for release base paper. The paper segment accounted for about 16 % of the Union 
consumption of PVA. 
(609) Three users in this sector, Ahlstrom-Munksjö, August Koehler and Paul & Co. and two user association, CEPI and 
Assocarta, came forward during the proceeding and after disclosure, opposing the possible measures arguing the 
interest of the Union users of the product concerned in this segment. 
(610) The parties argued, and reiterated their claims after disclosure, that anti-dumping duties on an important input 
product such as PVA would undermine the Union paper industry’s efforts at controlling costs, and thus their 
ability to compete. They claimed that, given the level of competition in the paper market especially from 
companies from the Asia-Pacific region, the Union paper producers would be in a disadvantaged position 
compared to non-EU producers, which would have access to cheaper PVA in a highly competitive market. 
These claims were repeated after the second additional disclosure. 
(611) Contrary to the arguments of the users, the investigation revealed that the impact of the PVA on the cost of 
production for the paper industry was negligible [1 % – 2 %]. Therefore, the imposition of anti-dumping duties 
would have a minimal impact on their cost and would not significantly affect their profitability. 
(612) Consequently, this claim was rejected. 
6.3.4. Adhesives producers 
(613) PVA is used in the adhesive industry as a main component for the production of glues. This segment represented 
almost 14 % of the total Union consumption of PVA. 
(614) One producer in the adhesive segment came forward opposing the measure. The company claimed that anti- 
dumping measures on PVA would severely affect its profitability, as the company would not be able to pass this 
increase in prices to its customers. This argument was repeated by Cordial and Wegochem after disclosure.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/75
 
(615) As regards the adhesive sector, PVA constituted [40 % – 50 %] ( 97 ) of the cost of the final product. In this situation, 
it appeared that the company would not be able to absorb the impact of the proposed anti-dumping duties. 
(616) After disclosure, Kuraray and Sekisui submitted that Cordial could not be considered, in their view, as a repre­
sentative player for the specific segment of adhesives applications. In their opinion Cordial’s products consist of a 
high PVA content mixes that only represents a minor part of the adhesives application segment. 
(617) The two Union producers argued that PVA represents around 2 % to 5 % of the cost of production of the major 
adhesives application of packaging adhesives and only in some specialized sectors the impact of PVA could go up 
to 10 % – 20 %. Therefore the 80 % cost impact of PVA to Cordial’s business cannot be presumed to be 
representative of the adhesives segment. 
(618) After disclosure, Cordial also requested to be granted an exemption from the proposed anti-dumping duties under 
the end-use procedure set out in Article 254 of the Union Customs Code. This request was based on the peculiarity 
of its products, the limited number of PVA grades it imports specifically developed in cooperation with its single 
supplier, the impossibility to absorb the proposed duties given its cost structure and profitability levels, and the 
inexistence of any other viable alternatives that would enable the company to remain in the market. 
(619) The Commission reassessed the situation of producers of adhesives and the company’s request in light of the 
comments received from all interested parties, in particularly Cordial, the Union industry, Cordial’s customers and 
other adhesives users. 
(620) Based on all the information made available to the Commission after disclosure by several interested parties, the 
Commission agreed with the Union industry submission that the situation of Cordial could not be extrapolated to 
the whole adhesive sector, where PVA constitutes on average only 2 % to 5 % of the cost of production of the 
major adhesives application (packaging adhesives). 
(621) Given the small weight PVA normally represents in the cost of adhesives products, the investigation revealed, that 
switching suppliers, even when considering the need for a certification process, was feasible for users in the 
adhesive segment as the impact of measures on their total cost would not be significant. 
(622) On the other hand, when looking at the particular situation of Cordial, the same conclusion cannot be reached. 
The investigation showed that a major part of its production concerned dry-blend adhesives produced and sold in 
powder form, a niche product in comparison with the commonly produced liquid adhesives manufactured on the 
basis of PVA or PVAc. Its clients have structured their production process in order to benefit from Cordial’s tailor- 
made adhesives and to gain a consistent saving in transport costs as explained in recital (626). Switching to liquid 
adhesives would mean to restructure their complete production process. 
(623) Because of this innovative product, Cordial’s cost structure is different from the average in the adhesives industry. 
PVA constituted at least [40 – 50 %] of the cost in case of Cordial. Differences are among others due to the fact 
that the proportion of PVA used per tonne of dry-blend adhesives is higher than in liquid adhesives. Given the 
peculiarity of the product developed by Cordial, it would be virtually impossible for the company to switch to 
non-PVA based products, as it would require a complete re-formulation of its glue composition. 
(624) In terms of alternative sources of supply, switching to the Union industry or other sources after the imposition of 
the measures would not be an option for the company. In fact, the company has already tried to establish new 
partnerships but, due to its small size, it was not able to establish a long-term relationship with alternative 
suppliers (a long term relationship would be required in order for suppliers to adapt to Cordial’s product 
requirements). The company submitted evidence that it has indeed tried in the past to purchase PVA from a 
Taiwanese producer, but could not conclude any deal, as this producer sells exclusively via a trader in the EU and 
was not willing to adapt its products to Cordial’s requirements. All these elements combined with the need for a 
certification process makes it unviable for the company to switch to other suppliers.
EN 
L 315/76 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 97 ) This figure has been revised following the disclosure.
 
(625) Finally, the company operates on a highly competitive market with very small profit margins. In this situation, the 
evidence indicates that the company would not be able to absorb the impact of the proposed anti-dumping duties 
and would most likely go bankrupt. 
(626) After disclosure, several downstream users of Cordial’s products in the paper and carton board industry also came 
forward opposing the measures. They claimed that the share of Cordial’s adhesives in their cost of production was 
significant (around [10 % – 25 %]). Therefore, any negative impact of the measures on their supplier of dry-blend 
adhesives would also negatively affect them. In addition, they would have to restructure their production 
equipment to fit the use of a completely different product. Finally, switching from dry to liquid adhesives 
would also mean a significant increase in transport costs (1 tonne of dry adhesive equals 5 to 8 tonnes of 
liquid adhesives). 
(627) The Commission also examined the effect of any possible exemption of duties under an end-use procedure on the 
effectiveness of the measures. In this respect, the Commission noted that the adhesives market segment represented 
17 % of the Union consumption, and that the only producer of dry-blend adhesives that came forward only 
represented 4 % of this segment. Thus, the Commission concluded that granting such an exemption would not 
have a negative impact on the effectiveness of the measures. 
(628) Given the above, the Commission decided to exceptionally place the imports of PVA used for the manufacturing of 
dry-blend adhesives, produced and sold in powder form for the carton board industry, under the end-use 
procedure referred to in Article 254 of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council ( 98 ). This end-use procedure will be strictly limited to dry-blend adhesives and under no circumstances will 
cover any other products (for example, liquid adhesives) produced by adhesive producers. 
(629) After the second additional disclosure, Cordial requested the Commission to subject companies wishing to avail 
themselves of the end-use exemption to a system of ex ante authorization by the Commission to ensure that they 
engage in genuine manufacturing of dry-blend adhesives. 
(630) In this regards, the Commission clarified that the end-use exemption as described in recital (628) is not company- 
specific, but applies to all dry-blend adhesives producers in a non-discriminatory manner. Moreover, the moni­
toring and application of the procedure referred to in Article 254 of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 is to be carried 
out by the Member States’ custom authorities. That procedure establishes requirements and checks that ensure that 
exemptions are limited to the end-use as established. Thus, it is not appropriate nor necessary that the Commission 
take any additional actions. 
(631) The request was therefore rejected. 
(632) After the second additional disclosure, the complainant argued against the legal basis and the effectiveness of the 
end-use exclusion as applied to Cordial. In its view, the company was not exclusively engaged in the production of 
dry-blend adhesives, as it also produced liquid adhesives and traded PVA imported from the PRC without applying 
any transformation process. 
(633) These arguments had to be dismissed. The Commission has assessed the impact of measures on all parties 
concerned and concluded that overall it is not against the interest of the Union to apply measures in this case. 
However, as explained in recitals (622) to (625), the investigation revealed that, unlike other users of PVA, a very 
limited set of users producing dry-blend adhesives would not be able to absorb measures. For this reason, the 
Commission decided to have recourse to the procedure foreseen in Article 254 of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013, 
which is completely in order with its level of discretion. Moreover, the end-use procedure will be strictly limited to 
the manufacturing of dry-blend adhesives and will not cover any other products, whether produced or traded by 
adhesive producers. Therefore, any purchase of Chinese PVA for any other production or trading activities of 
Cordial (or any other dry-blend adhesives) will in any case not benefit from the duty exemption. The Commission 
recalls that the end-use exemption is a burdensome procedure for users who want to benefit from it and that they 
will be under strict customs control, which ensures compliance.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/77 
( 98 ) Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 laying down the Union Customs 
Code (OJ L 269, 10.10.2013, p. 1).
 
(634) Two importers, Gamma Chimica and Carbochem, and one user, Far Polymers, argued after the second additional 
disclosure that the conditions on the basis of which the Commission granted the end-use exemption to dry-blend 
producers also applied to them. Therefore, the companies asked the Commission to extend the end-use procedure 
to them. In their view, similar to Cordial, they all sell PVA and PVA blends in powder or liquid form and their 
customers have structured their production process in order to use the blended PVA supplied by them. 
(635) The Commission disagreed that these companies were in the same situation as producers of dry-blend adhesives. 
(636) The information collected during the investigation showed that the largest part of PVA imported by Gamma 
Chimica and Carbochem was simply repacked and sold to end users. A minor quantity was mixed with additives 
or dissolved in water according to customers’ requests. However, none of these processes consists in an actual 
transformation of the product concerned. Therefore, even for these sales, the companies were still considered 
importers, trading goods produced by other companies. The end-use procedure applies only to the final users and 
not to intermediaries. Thus, the end-use exemption would not even be an option available to these two importers. 
In addition, contrary to the companies’ claims, the investigation revealed that there were no issues securing 
alternative sources of supply because, as confirmed by the companies during the investigation, their PVA 
purchases were not dependent on technical constraints. Finally, as explained in recital (555) and (556), the 
PVA share in the importers’ turnover ranged from 10 % to 40 % and their profitability levels were found sufficient 
to absorb at least part of the duties. 
(637) Far Polymers is active in the emulsions and polymerisation sector. As mentioned in recital (597), the share of PVA 
in the cost of production of the users operating in this segment represented [3 % – 7 %] of the total cost. Far 
Polymers claimed that the share of PVA used per tonne of finished product was [10 % – 15 %]. However, the 
percentages mentioned by Far Polymers in support of its claim referred to the quantity of product used and not to 
its share in the cost of production. Therefore, the conclusions of section 6.3.2 for the emulsions and poly­
merisation sector remain valid for Far Polymers. 
(638) The Commission concluded that none of these companies were in a situation similar to the one of dry-blend 
adhesive producers. Therefore, these claims were rejected. 
6.4. Additional comments after Disclosure 
(639) After disclosure several parties, Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Carbochem, Cordial, Solutia, Wacker and Wegochem repeated 
the argument that the Union market is highly import reliant and that the Union industry does not have enough 
capacity. They argued that both KEG and Sekisui invested in two downstream plants, in the Netherlands and in 
Poland, which will increase their captive consumption and hence will decrease their capacity to supply the free 
market. They also argued that the third countries are not a viable alternative source as they don’t have enough 
spare capacity. Solutia reiterated this argument after the second additional disclosure. 
(640) Contrary to these arguments the investigation confirmed that the Union industry has sufficient capacity to supply 
the Union free market as it has still 30 000 tonnes of spare capacity available. Moreover, as explained above in 
recital (447) the Union industry did not reduce permanently its production capacity as it just mothballed two 
production lines that can be reactivated at short notice. 
(641) As regards the plant in the Netherlands, the Commission noted that there was no information on when it will 
become operative. Moreover, information collected during the investigation suggested that it will source at least 
part of the PVA grades from outside the Union. Concerning the plant in Poland, information received after 
disclosure confirmed that it will use mostly copolymers, which are outside the scope of the product concerned, 
and that these will be sourced from KEG plants outside the Union. 
(642) The argument concerning the lack of supply capacity of the third countries had to be rejected as well as the 
information collected during the investigation confirmed that the Taiwanese producer has still significant spare 
production capacity available.
EN 
L 315/78 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
(643) Furthermore, a downstream user of the PVB and polymerisation sectors, Saint Gobain, came forward opposing the 
proposed measures. Saint Gobain sources PVB film for its automotive and building glass production and purchases 
PVA-based redispersible powder (RPD) and liquid dispersions polymer (LDP) for its gypsum and mortar 
production. RDP and LDP are products of PVA users active in the emulsions and polymerisation sector. 
(644) Saint Gobain argued that the adoption of the proposed antidumping duties on PVA from the PRC would have a 
significant impact on its activities. Being a user of PVA-based products the duties would negatively affect its 
purchase prices and hence its cost of production and, in the company’s view, it was unlikely that any of the 
increased costs could be passed on to the customers. 
(645) The Commission disagreed with this argument. As explained above in recitals (579) and (597), the impact of the 
duties on the costs and profitability of the users in the PVB and in the polymerisation sectors will be minor, hence 
its effect on a further downstream sector will be negligible. These claim were therefore rejected. 
6.5. Conclusion on Union interest 
(646) The imposition of measures is clearly in the interest of the Union PVA industry selling on the free market. Without 
measures, Chinese producers will continue to dump PVA on the Union market preventing the Union industry to 
regain its profitability. 
(647) The argument, put forward by some of the users, that the Union is highly import reliant for its supply stability 
should be considered taking into account that, without the Union industry, the Union would lose about 
[50 % – 60 %] of its supply capacity ( 99 ) of PVA. 
(648) With regard to the users in the PVB and polymerization segments, it is important to point out that they sourced 
only a limited part of their PVA consumption from China, and that the impact of any measures on their profit­
ability will be minor. The competitiveness of the paper and the adhesives industry in general will also not be 
affected, as PVA represented a minor part of their production cost. On the basis of the above, the Commission 
concluded that there were no compelling reasons that it was not in the Union interest to impose definitive 
measures on imports of PVA originating in the country concerned. 
7. DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 
(649) On the basis of the conclusions reached by the Commission on dumping, injury, causation and Union interest, 
definitive anti-dumping measures should be imposed to prevent further injury being caused to the Union industry 
by the dumped imports of the product concerned. 
7.1. Injury elimination level (Injury margin) 
(650) To determine the level of the measures, the Commission first established the amount of duty necessary to eliminate 
the injury suffered by the Union industry. 
(651) The injury would be eliminated if the Union industry was able to cover its costs of production and to obtain a 
profit before tax on sales of the like product in the Union market that could be reasonably achieved under normal 
conditions of competition by an industry of this type in the sector, namely in the absence of dumped imports. 
(652) The basic profit margin of the Union industry realised before the increase of dumped imports (2015) was added to 
the level of investments, R&D and innovation (‘IRI’) under normal conditions of competition, expressed as a 
percentage on turnover. Since this amounted to less than 6 %, the target profit was set at 6 % which is the 
minimum target profit margin to be applied in accordance with Article 7(2)(c). 
(653) As no claims were made pursuant to Article 7(2)((d) concerning current or future costs which result from multi­
lateral environmental agreements and protocols thereunder or from the listed ILO Conventions, no further costs 
were added to the non-injurious prices thus established.
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/79 
( 99 ) Total free market and captive consumption.
 
(654) The Commission then determined the injury elimination level on the basis of a comparison of the weighted 
average import price of the sampled cooperating exporting producers in the country concerned, as established for 
the price undercutting calculations, with the weighted average non-injurious price of the like product sold by the 
sampled Union producers on the Union free market during the investigation period. Any difference resulting from 
this comparison was expressed as a percentage of the weighted average import CIF value. The resulting average 
underselling margin was 57,9 %. 
(655) After final disclosure, Wacker argued that the non-injurious price of the Union industry established by the 
Commission per PCN should be corrected to exclude the cost of the PVA grades not sold by the Chinese 
companies, and contested the 6 % target profit used by the Commission in the calculation. Concerning 
Wacker’s first claim, the Commission clarifies that it only used the cost of production of the Union industry 
PCNs for which it found a comparable exported PCN. 
(656) As regards the target profit level, as mentioned in recital (652) above, this level was established in line with the 
provision of Article 7(2)(c) of the basic Regulation. These claims were thus rejected. 
(657) The injury elimination level for ‘other cooperating companies’ and for ‘all other companies’ was defined in the 
same manner as the dumping margin for these companies (see recitals (393) and (396)). 
7.2. Definitive measures 
(658) Definitive anti-dumping measures should be imposed on imports of certain polyvinyl alcohols originating in the 
People’s Republic of China, in accordance with the lesser duty rule in Article 7(2) of the basic Regulation. The 
Commission compared the injury margins and the dumping margins. The amount of the duties should be set at 
the level of the lower of the dumping and the injury margins. 
(659) On the basis of the above, the definitive anti-dumping duty rates, expressed on the CIF Union border price, 
customs duty unpaid, should be as follows: 
Company 
Dumping margin 
Injury margin 
Definitive anti-dumping 
duty 
Shuangxin Group 
115,6 % 
72,9 % 
72,9 % 
Sinopec Group 
17,3 % 
57,6 % 
17,3 % 
Wan Wei Group 
193,2 % 
55,7 % 
55,7 % 
Other cooperating companies 
80,4 % 
57,9 % 
57,9 % 
All other companies 
193,2 % 
72,9 % 
72,9 % 
(660) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the 
findings of this investigation. Therefore, they reflected the situation found during this investigation with respect to 
these companies. These duty rates are exclusively applicable to imports of the product concerned originating in the 
PRC and produced by the named legal entities. Imports of the product concerned produced by any other company 
not specifically mentioned in the operative part of this Regulation, including entities related to those specifically 
mentioned, should be subject to the duty rate applicable to ‘all other companies’. They should not be subject to 
any of the individual anti-dumping duty rates. 
(661) A company may request the application of these individual anti-dumping duty rates if it changes subsequently the 
name of its entity. The request must be addressed to the Commission ( 100 ). The request must contain all the 
relevant information enabling to demonstrate that the change does not affect the right of the company to benefit 
from the duty rate which applies to it.
EN 
L 315/80 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020 
( 100 ) European Commission, Directorate-General for Trade, Directorate H, Rue de la Loi 170, 1040 Brussels, Belgium.
 
(662) To ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duties, the anti-dumping duty for all other companies should 
apply not only to the non-cooperating exporting producers in this investigation, but also to the producers which 
did not have exports to the Union during the investigation period. 
(663) In view of Article 109 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council ( 101 ), when an amount is to be reimbursed following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the 
European Union, the interest to be paid should be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its 
principal refinancing operations, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union on the 
first calendar day of each month. 
7.3. Special monitoring clause 
(664) To minimise the risks of circumvention due to the high difference in duty rates, special measures are needed to 
ensure the application of the individual anti-dumping duties. The companies with individual anti-dumping duties 
must present a valid commercial invoice to the customs authorities of the Member States. The invoice must 
conform to the requirements set out in Article 1(3) hereof. Imports not accompanied by that invoice should be 
subject to the anti-dumping duty applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
(665) While presentation of this invoice is necessary for the customs authorities of the Member States to apply the 
individual rates of anti-dumping duty to imports, it is not the only element to be taken into account by the 
customs authorities. Indeed, even if presented with an invoice meeting all the requirements set out in Article 1(3) 
of this Regulation, the customs authorities of the Member States should carry out their usual checks and should, 
like in all other cases, require additional documents (shipping documents, etc.) for the purpose of verifying the 
accuracy of the particulars contained in the declaration and ensure that the subsequent application of the lower 
rate of duty is justified, in compliance with customs law. 
(666) Should the exports by one of the companies benefiting from lower individual duty rates increase significantly in 
volume after the imposition of the measures concerned, such an increase in volume could be considered as 
constituting in itself a change in the pattern of trade due to the imposition of measures within the meaning of 
Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation. In such circumstances and provided the conditions are met an anti-circum­
vention investigation may be initiated. This investigation may, inter alia, examine the need for the removal of 
individual duty rate(s) and the consequent imposition of a country-wide duty. 
8. DISCLOSURE 
(667) On 3 July 2020, interested parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations based on which it was 
intended to recommend the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of PVA originating in the 
PRC. 
(668) Interested parties were also granted a period within which they could make representations subsequent to this 
disclosure. 17 parties submitted comments on disclosure. Upon request, hearings were held with Kuraray, Sekisui, 
Wacker, Cordial, Solutia, Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Sinopec and Wegochem.. 
(669) Following the comments received in response to the disclosure, interested parties were informed on 24 July and on 
6 August 2020 of additional facts and considerations which had not been part of the final disclosure of 3 July 
2020. Additional comments were received from the Union industry, the Chinese exporting producers, and several 
users. 
(670) Upon request, hearings were held with Kuraray, Sekisui, Wacker, Cordial, Solutia, Ahlstrom-Munksjö, Sinopec and 
Wegochem. 
(671) The comments submitted by interested parties were duly considered, and, where appropriate, the findings have 
been modified accordingly. 
(672) The Committee established by Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 did not deliver an opinion and a simple 
majority of its component members opposed the draft Commission implementing Regulation. The Commission 
then resubmitted the draft Commission implementing Regulation to the Appeal Committee in accordance with 
Article 5(5) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 102 ).
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/81 
( 101 ) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules 
applicable to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulation (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) 
No 1303/2013, (EU) No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014 and 
Decision No 541/2014/EU and repealing Regulation (EU Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1) 
( 102 ) Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and 
general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission’s exercise of implementing powers 
(OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
 
(673) In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the appeal committee did not deliver an opinion, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
1. 
A definitive anti-dumping duty is imposed on imports of polyvinyl alcohol, whether or not containing 
unhydrolysed acetate groups, in the form of homopolymer resins with a viscosity (measured in 4 % aqueous solution 
at 20 °C) of 3 mPa·s or more but not more than 61 mPa·s and a degree of hydrolysis of 80,0 mol % or more but not 
more than 99,9 mol %, both measured according to the ISO 15023-2 method, originating in the People’s Republic of 
China, currently falling under CN code ex 3905 30 00 (TARIC code 3905 30 00 91). 
2. 
The rates of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price, before duty, of the 
product described in paragraph 1 and produced by the companies listed below shall be as follows: 
Company 
Definitive anti-dumping duty (%) 
TARIC additional code 
Shuangxin Group 
72,9 % 
C552 
Sinopec Group 
17,3 % 
C553 
Wan Wei Group 
55,7 % 
C554 
Other cooperating companies listed in 
Annex I 
57,9 % 
See Annex I 
All other companies 
72,9 % 
C999 
3. 
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be 
conditional upon presentation to the Member States’ customs authorities of a valid commercial invoice, on which 
shall appear a declaration dated and signed by an official of the entity issuing such invoice, identified by his/her 
name and function, drafted as follows: ‘I, the undersigned, certify that the (volume) of (product concerned) sold for export to 
the European Union covered by this invoice was manufactured by (company name and address) (TARIC additional code) in the 
People’s Republic of China. I declare that the information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.’ If no such invoice is 
presented, the duty applicable to all other companies shall apply. 
4. 
Products described in paragraph 1 shall be exempted from the definitive anti-dumping duty if they are imported for 
the manufacturing of dry-blend adhesives, produced and sold in powder form for the carton board industry. Such 
products shall be placed under the end-use procedure referred to in Article 254 of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 in 
order to demonstrate that they are imported exclusively for the above-mentioned use. 
5. 
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply. 
Article 2 
Where a new exporting producer from the People’s Republic of China provides sufficient evidence to the Commission, 
the Annex may be amended by adding that new exporting producer to the list of cooperating companies not included in 
the sample and thus subject to the appropriate weighted average anti-dumping duty rate, namely 57,9 %. A new 
exporting producer shall provide evidence that: 
(a) it did not export the goods described in Article 1(1) originating in the People’s Republic of China during the period of 
investigation (1 July 2018–30 June 2019); 
(b) it is not related to an exporter or producer subject to the measures imposed by this Regulation; and 
(c) it has either actually exported the goods described in Article 1(1) originating in the People’s Republic of China or has 
entered into an irrevocable contractual obligation to export a significant quantity to the Union after the end of the 
period of investigation
EN 
L 315/82 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
 
Article 3 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 25 September 2020. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN 
29.9.2020 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 315/83
 
ANNEX 
Chinese cooperating exporting producers not sampled 
Name 
TARIC additional code 
Chang Chun Chemical (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. 
C555
EN 
L 315/84 
Official Journal of the European Union 
29.9.2020
