ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
1/12
COUNCIL REGULATION (EU) 2024/287 
of 12 January 2024
concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Guatemala 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 215 thereof,
Having regard to Council Decision (CFSP) 2024/254 of 12 January 2024 concerning restrictive measures in view of the 
situation in Guatemala (1),
Having regard to the joint proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and 
the European Commission,
Whereas:
(1)
On 12 January 2024, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2024/254, establishing a framework for targeted 
restrictive measures in view of the situation in Guatemala, which constitutes a threat to the stability of Guatemala 
and the region. The Decision provides for the freezing of funds and economic resources of, and the prohibition to 
make funds and economic resources available to, certain natural or legal persons, entities or bodies responsible for 
actions that undermine democracy, the rule of law or the peaceful transfer of power in Guatemala or undermining 
democracy or the rule of law in Guatemala, including through serious financial misconduct concerning public 
funds and the unauthorised export of capital, as well as against natural or legal persons, entities or bodies associated 
with them. Natural and legal persons, entities and bodies subject to the restrictive measures are listed in the Annex to 
Decision (CFSP) 2024/254.
(2)
Those measures fall within the scope of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and, therefore, notably 
with a view to ensuring their uniform application by economic operators in all Member States, regulatory action at 
the level of the Union is necessary in order to implement them.
(3)
This Regulation respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised by the Charter of 
Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular the right to an effective remedy and a fair hearing, the 
right to defence, and the right to the protection of personal data. This Regulation should be applied in accordance 
with those rights.
(4)
The procedure for amending the list set out in Annex I to this Regulation should include providing designated 
natural or legal persons, entities or bodies with the grounds for listing, so as to give them an opportunity to submit 
observations.
(5)
For the implementation of this Regulation, and in order to ensure maximum legal certainty within the Union, the 
names and other relevant data concerning natural and legal persons, entities and bodies whose funds and economic 
resources are to be frozen in accordance with this Regulation should be made public. Any processing of personal 
data should comply with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (2) and (EU) 2018/1725 (3) of the European Parliament and of 
the Council.
(6)
Member States and the Commission should inform each other of the measures taken pursuant to this Regulation and 
of any other relevant information at their disposal in connection with this Regulation.
(1) OJ L, 2024/254, 15.1.2024, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2024/254/oj.
(2) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data 
Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1).
(3) Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of 
such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39).
Official Journal  
of the European Union 
EN 
L series    
2024/287  
15.1.2024
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
2/12
(7)
Member States should lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation. 
Those penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply:
(a) ‘claim’ means any claim, whether asserted by legal proceedings or not, made before or after the date of entry into force 
of this Regulation, under or in connection with a contract or transaction, and in particular:
(i)
a claim for performance of any obligation arising under or in connection with a contract or transaction;
(ii)
a claim for extension or payment of a bond, financial guarantee or indemnity of whatever form;
(iii) a claim for compensation in respect of a contract or transaction;
(iv) a counterclaim;
(v)
a claim for the recognition or enforcement, including by the procedure of exequatur, of a judgment, an arbitration 
award or an equivalent decision, wherever made or given;
(b) ‘contract or transaction’ means any transaction of whatever form and whatever the applicable law, whether comprising 
one or more contracts or similar obligations made between the same or different parties; for this purpose ‘contract’ 
includes a bond, guarantee or indemnity, particularly a financial guarantee or financial indemnity, and credit, whether 
legally independent or not, as well as any related provision arising under, or in connection with, the transaction;
(c) ‘competent authorities’ means the competent authorities of the Member States as identified on the websites listed in 
Annex II;
(d) ‘economic resources’ means assets of every kind, whether tangible or intangible, movable or immovable, which are not 
funds, but may be used to obtain funds, goods or services;
(e) ‘freezing of economic resources’ means preventing the use of economic resources to obtain funds, goods or services in 
any way, including, but not limited to, by selling, hiring or mortgaging them;
(f)
‘freezing of funds’ means preventing any move, transfer, alteration, use of, access to, or dealing with funds in any way 
that would result in any change in their volume, amount, location, ownership, possession, character, destination or 
other change that would enable the funds to be used, including portfolio management;
(g) ‘funds’ means financial assets and benefits of every kind, including, but not limited to:
(i)
cash, cheques, claims on money, drafts, money orders and other payment instruments;
(ii)
deposits with financial institutions or other entities, balances on accounts, debts and debt obligations;
(iii)
publicly and privately-traded securities and debt instruments, including stocks and shares, certificates representing 
securities, bonds, notes, warrants, debentures and derivatives contracts;
(iv)
interest, dividends or other income on, or value accruing from, or generated by assets;
(v)
credit, right of set-off, guarantees, performance bonds or other financial commitments;
(vi)
letters of credit, bills of lading, bills of sale;
(vii) documents showing evidence of an interest in funds or financial resources;
(h) ‘territory of the Union’ means the territories of the Member States to which the Treaty on European Union (TEU) is 
applicable, under the conditions laid down in the TEU, including their airspace.
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
3/12
Article 2
1.
All funds and economic resources belonging to, owned, held or controlled by any natural or legal person, entity or 
body as listed in Annex I shall be frozen.
2.
No funds or economic resources shall be made available, directly or indirectly, to or for the benefit of natural or legal 
persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex I.
3.
Annex I shall include natural or legal persons, entities or bodies:
(a) responsible for, engaging in, providing support to, or benefiting from, actions that undermine democracy, the rule of 
law or the peaceful transfer of power in Guatemala, including:
(i)
persecution or intimidation of public officials or public institutions involved in or supporting the electoral process, 
of democratically-elected authorities or of the democratic opposition in Guatemala;
(ii) repression, persecution or intimidation of representatives of civil society or of the media, or of judges, lawyers or 
prosecutors;
(b) undermining democracy or the rule of law in Guatemala through serious financial misconduct concerning public funds 
or the unauthorised export of capital;
(c) associated with the natural persons designated under points (a) and (b).
Article 3
1.
By way of derogation from Article 2(1) and (2), the competent authorities may authorise the release of certain frozen 
funds or economic resources, or the making available of certain funds or economic resources, under such conditions as 
they deem appropriate, after having determined that the funds or economic resources concerned are:
(a) necessary to satisfy the basic needs of natural or legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex I, and dependent family 
members of such natural persons, including payments for food, rent or mortgage, medicines and medical treatment, 
taxes, insurance premiums, and public utility charges;
(b) intended exclusively for the payment of reasonable professional fees or the reimbursement of incurred expenses 
associated with the provision of legal services;
(c) intended exclusively for the payment of fees or service charges for the routine holding or maintenance of frozen funds 
or economic resources;
(d) necessary for extraordinary expenses, provided that the relevant competent authority has notified the competent 
authorities of the other Member States and the Commission of the grounds on which it considers that a specific 
authorisation should be granted, at least 2 weeks prior to the authorisation; or
(e) to be paid into or from an account of a diplomatic or consular mission or an international organisation enjoying 
immunities in accordance with international law, insofar as such payments are intended to be used for official 
purposes of the diplomatic or consular mission or international organisation.
2.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted 
under paragraph 1 within 2 weeks of the authorisation.
Article 4
1.
Article 2(1) and (2) shall not apply to the making available of funds or economic resources necessary to ensure the 
timely delivery of humanitarian assistance or to support other activities that support basic human needs where such 
assistance and other activities are carried out by:
(a) the United Nations (UN), including its programmes, funds and other entities and bodies, as well as its specialised 
agencies and related organisations;
(b) international organisations;
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
4/12
(c) humanitarian organisations having observer status with the UN General Assembly and members of those humanitarian 
organisations;
(d) bilaterally or multilaterally-funded non-governmental organisations participating in the UN Humanitarian Response 
Plans, UN Refugee Response Plans and other UN appeals or humanitarian clusters coordinated by the UN Office for 
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs;
(e) organisations and agencies to which the Union has granted the Humanitarian Partnership Certificate or which are 
certified or recognised by a Member State in accordance with national procedures;
(f)
Member States’ specialised agencies; or
(g) the employees, grantees, subsidiaries, or implementing partners of the entities mentioned in points (a) to (f) while, and 
to the extent that, they are acting in those capacities.
2.
Without prejudice to paragraph 1, and by way of derogation from Article 2(1) and (2), the competent authorities of a 
Member State may authorise the release of certain frozen funds or economic resources, or the making available of certain 
funds or economic resources, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, after having determined that the provision 
of such funds or economic resources is necessary to ensure the timely delivery of humanitarian assistance or to support 
other activities that support basic human needs.
3.
In the absence of a negative decision, a request for information or a notification for additional time from the relevant 
competent authority within 5 working days of the date of receipt of a request for authorisation under paragraph 2, that 
authorisation shall be considered granted.
4.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisations 
granted under paragraphs 2 and 3 within 4 weeks of such authorisation.
Article 5
1.
By way of derogation from Article 2(1), the competent authorities may authorise the release of certain frozen funds 
or economic resources, if the following conditions are met:
(a) the funds or economic resources are the subject of an arbitral decision rendered prior to the date on which the natural 
or legal person, entity or body referred to in Article 2 was listed in Annex I, or of a judicial or administrative decision 
rendered in the Union, or a judicial decision enforceable in the Member State concerned, prior to or after that date;
(b) the funds or economic resources will be used exclusively to satisfy claims secured by such a decision or recognised as 
valid in such a decision, within the limits set by applicable laws and regulations governing the rights of persons having 
such claims;
(c) the decision is not for the benefit of a natural or legal person, entity or body listed in Annex I; and
(d) recognition of the decision is not contrary to public policy in the Member State concerned.
2.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted 
under paragraph 1 within 2 weeks of the authorisation.
Article 6
1.
By way of derogation from Article 2(1) and provided that a payment by a natural or legal person, entity or body listed 
in Annex I is due under a contract or agreement that was concluded by, or an obligation that arose for, the natural or legal 
person, entity or body concerned, before the date on which that natural or legal person, entity or body was included in 
Annex I, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the release of certain 
frozen funds or economic resources, provided that the competent authority concerned has determined that:
(a) the funds or economic resources will be used for a payment by a natural or legal person, entity or body listed in 
Annex I; and
(b) the payment is not in breach of Article 2(2).
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
5/12
2.
The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted 
under paragraph 1 within 2 weeks of the authorisation.
Article 7
1.
Article 2(2) shall not prevent the crediting of frozen accounts by financial or credit institutions that receive funds 
transferred by third parties onto the account of a listed natural or legal person, entity or body, provided that any additions 
to such accounts will also be frozen. The financial or credit institution shall inform the relevant competent authority about 
any such transaction without delay.
2.
Article 2(2) shall not apply to the addition to frozen accounts of:
(a) interest or other earnings on those accounts;
(b) payments due under contracts, agreements or obligations that were concluded or arose before the date on which the 
natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in Article 2 was included in Annex I; or
(c) payments due under judicial, administrative or arbitral decisions rendered in a Member State or enforceable in the 
Member State concerned;
provided that any such interest, other earnings and payments are frozen in accordance with Article 2(1).
Article 8
1.
Natural and legal persons, entities and bodies shall:
(a) supply immediately any information which would facilitate compliance with this Regulation, such as information on 
accounts and amounts frozen in accordance with Article 2(1), to the competent authority of the Member State where 
they are resident or located, and transmit such information, directly or through the Member State, to the Commission; 
and
(b) cooperate with the competent authority in any verification of the information referred to in point (a).
2.
The obligation in paragraph 1 shall apply subject to national or other applicable rules regarding the confidentiality of 
information held by judicial authorities, and consistent with respect for the confidentiality of communications between 
lawyers and their clients guaranteed by Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. For this 
purpose, such communications include those relating to legal advice provided by other certified professionals who are 
authorised under national law to represent their clients in judicial proceedings, insofar as such legal advice is provided in 
connection with pending or prospective judicial proceedings.
3.
Any additional information received directly by the Commission shall be made available to the Member States.
4.
Any information provided or received in accordance with this Article shall be used only for the purposes for which it 
was provided or received.
5.
The competent authorities of the Member States, including enforcement authorities, customs authorities within the 
meaning of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (4), competent authorities within 
the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (5), Directive (EU) 2015/849 (6) and Directive 2014/65/EU (7) of the 
(4) Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 laying down the Union Customs 
Code (OJ L 269, 10.10.2013, p. 1).
(5) Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit 
institutions and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1).
(6) Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial 
system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission 
Directive 2006/70/EC (OJ L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 73).
(7) Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and 
amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349).
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
6/12
European Parliament and of the Council, as well as administrators of official registers wherein natural persons, legal 
persons, entities and bodies as well as immovable or movable property are registered, shall process and exchange without 
delay information, including personal data and, if necessary, the information referred to in paragraph 1, with other 
competent authorities of their Member State, of other Member States and the Commission, if such processing and 
exchange is necessary to carry out the tasks of the processing authority or the receiving authority under this Regulation, in 
particular when they detect instances of a breach or circumvention, or attempts at a breach or circumvention, of the 
prohibitions set out in this Regulation.
Article 9
1.
It shall be prohibited to participate, knowingly and intentionally, in activities the object or effect of which is to 
circumvent the measures referred to in Article 2.
2.
Natural or legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex I, shall:
(a) report within 6 weeks from the date of listing in Annex I funds or economic resources within the jurisdiction of a 
Member State belonging to, owned, held or controlled by them, to the competent authority of the Member State where 
those funds or economic resources are located; and
(b) cooperate with the competent authority in any verification of such information.
3.
Failure to comply with paragraph 2 shall be considered as participation, as referred to in paragraph 1, in activities the 
object or effect of which is to circumvent the measures referred to in Article 2.
4.
The Member State concerned shall inform the Commission within 2 weeks of the information received pursuant to 
paragraph 2(a).
5.
Any information provided or received in accordance with this Article shall be used only for the purposes for which it 
was provided or received.
6.
Any processing of personal data shall be carried out in accordance with this Regulation, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 
and Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council and only in so far as necessary for the 
application of this Regulation.
Article 10
1.
The freezing of funds and economic resources or the refusal to make funds or economic resources available, carried 
out in good faith on the basis that such action is in accordance with this Regulation, shall not give rise to liability of any 
kind on the part of the natural or legal person or entity or body implementing it, or its directors or employees, unless it is 
proved that the funds and economic resources were frozen or withheld as a result of negligence.
2.
Actions by natural or legal persons, entities or bodies shall not give rise to any liability of any kind on their part if they 
did not know, and had no reasonable cause to suspect, that their actions would infringe the measures set out in this 
Regulation.
Article 11
1.
No claims in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under this Regulation, including claims for indemnity or any other 
claim of this type, such as a claim for compensation or a claim under a guarantee, notably a claim for extension or payment 
of a bond, guarantee or indemnity, particularly a financial guarantee or financial indemnity, of whatever form, shall be 
satisfied, if they are made by:
(a) natural or legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex I;
(b) any natural or legal person, entity or body acting through or on behalf of one of the natural or legal persons, entities or 
bodies referred to in point (a).
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
7/12
2.
In any proceedings for the enforcement of a claim, the onus of proving that satisfying the claim is not prohibited by 
paragraph 1 shall be on the natural or legal person, entity or body seeking the enforcement of that claim.
3.
This Article is without prejudice to the right of the natural or legal persons, entities and bodies referred to in 
paragraph 1 to judicial review of the legality of the non-performance of contractual obligations in accordance with this 
Regulation.
Article 12
1.
The Commission and Member States shall inform each other of the measures taken under this Regulation and share 
any other relevant information at their disposal in connection with this Regulation, in particular information in respect of:
(a) funds frozen under Article 2 and authorisations granted under the derogations set out in this Regulation;
(b) violation and enforcement problems and judgments handed down by national courts.
2.
The Member States shall immediately inform each other and the Commission of any other relevant information at 
their disposal which might affect the effective implementation of this Regulation.
Article 13
1.
Where the Council decides to subject a natural or legal person, entity or body to the measures referred to in Article 2, 
it shall amend Annex I accordingly.
2.
The Council shall communicate a decision pursuant to paragraph 1, including the grounds for the listing, to the 
natural or legal person, entity or body concerned, either directly, if the address is known, or through the publication of a 
notice, providing that natural or legal person, entity or body with an opportunity to submit observations.
3.
Where observations are submitted, or where substantial new evidence is presented, the Council shall review the 
decision concerned and inform the natural or legal person, entity or body concerned accordingly.
4.
The list in Annex I shall be reviewed at regular intervals and at least every 12 months.
5.
The Commission shall be empowered to amend Annex II on the basis of information supplied by Member States.
Article 14
1.
Annex I shall include the grounds for the listing of natural or legal persons, entities or bodies concerned.
2.
Annex I shall contain, where available, the information necessary to identify the natural or legal persons, entities or 
bodies concerned. With regard to natural persons, such information may include names and aliases, date and place of 
birth, nationality, passport and identity card numbers, gender, address, if known, and function or profession. With regard 
to legal persons, entities or bodies, such information may include names, place and date of registration, registration 
number and place of business.
Article 15
1.
Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation 
and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. The penalties provided for must be effective, 
proportionate and dissuasive. Member States shall also provide for appropriate measures of confiscation of the proceeds of 
such infringements.
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
8/12
2.
Member States shall notify the Commission of the rules referred to in paragraph 1 without delay after the entry into 
force of this Regulation and shall notify it of any subsequent amendment.
Article 16
1.
The Council, the Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy (the 
‘High Representative’) may process personal data in order to carry out their tasks under this Regulation. These tasks include:
(a) as regards the Council, preparing and making amendments to Annex I;
(b) as regards the High Representative, preparing amendments to Annex I;
(c) as regards the Commission:
(i)
adding the contents of Annex I to the electronic, consolidated list of persons, groups and entities subject to Union 
financial sanctions and to the interactive sanctions map, both of which are publicly available;
(ii) processing information on the impact of the measures of this Regulation, such as the value of frozen funds and 
information on authorisations granted by the competent authorities.
2.
The Council, the Commission and the High Representative shall process, where applicable, relevant data relating to 
criminal offences committed by listed natural persons, to criminal convictions of such persons or to security measures 
concerning such persons only to the extent that such processing is necessary for the preparation of Annex I.
3.
For the purposes of this Regulation, the Council, the Commission and the High Representative are designated as 
‘controller’ within the meaning of Article 3, point 8, of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 in order to ensure that the natural 
persons concerned can exercise their rights under that Regulation.
Article 17
1.
Member States shall designate the competent authorities referred to in this Regulation and identify them on the 
websites listed in Annex II. Member States shall notify the Commission of any changes in the addresses of their websites 
listed in Annex II.
2.
Member States shall notify the Commission of their competent authorities, including the contact details of those 
competent authorities, without delay after the entry into force of this Regulation, and shall notify it of any subsequent 
amendment.
3.
Where this Regulation sets out a requirement to notify, inform or otherwise communicate with the Commission, the 
address and other contact details to be used for such communication shall be those indicated in Annex II.
Article 18
Any information provided to or received by the Commission in accordance with this Regulation shall be used by the 
Commission only for the purposes for which it was provided or received.
Article 19
This Regulation shall apply:
(a) within the territory of the Union, including its airspace;
(b) on board any aircraft or vessel under the jurisdiction of a Member State;
(c) to any natural person inside or outside the territory of the Union who is a national of a Member State;
(d) to any legal person, entity or body, inside or outside the territory of the Union, which is incorporated or constituted 
under the law of a Member State;
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
9/12
(e) to any legal person, entity or body in respect of any business done in whole or in part within the Union.
Article 20
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 12 January 2024.
For the Council
The President
H. LAHBIB
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
10/12
ANNEX I 
LIST OF NATURAL AND LEGAL PERSONS, ENTITIES AND BODIES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 2 
[…]
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
11/12
ANNEX II 
WEBSITES FOR INFORMATION ON THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES AND ADDRESS FOR 
NOTIFICATIONS TO THE COMMISSION 
BELGIUM
https://diplomatie.belgium.be/en/policy/policy_areas/peace_and_security/sanctions
BULGARIA
https://www.mfa.bg/en/EU-sanctions
CZECHIA
https://fau.gov.cz/en/international-sanctions
DENMARK
http://um.dk/da/Udenrigspolitik/folkeretten/sanktioner/
GERMANY
https://www.bmwi.de/Redaktion/DE/Artikel/Aussenwirtschaft/embargos-aussenwirtschaftsrecht.html
ESTONIA
https://vm.ee/sanktsioonid-ekspordi-ja-relvastuskontroll/rahvusvahelised-sanktsioonid
IRELAND
https://www.dfa.ie/our-role-policies/ireland-in-the-eu/eu-restrictive-measures/
GREECE
http://www.mfa.gr/en/foreign-policy/global-issues/international-sanctions.html
SPAIN
https://www.exteriores.gob.es/es/PoliticaExterior/Paginas/SancionesInternacionales.aspx
FRANCE
http://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/fr/autorites-sanctions/
CROATIA
https://mvep.gov.hr/vanjska-politika/medjunarodne-mjere-ogranicavanja/22955
ITALY
https://www.esteri.it/it/politica-estera-e-cooperazione-allo-sviluppo/politica_europea/misure_deroghe/
CYPRUS
https://mfa.gov.cy/themes/
LATVIA
http://www.mfa.gov.lv/en/security/4539
LITHUANIA
http://www.urm.lt/sanctions
LUXEMBOURG
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/287/oj 
12/12
https://maee.gouvernement.lu/fr/directions-du-ministere/affaires-europeennes/organisations-economiques-int/mesures- 
restrictives.html
HUNGARY
https://kormany.hu/kulgazdasagi-es-kulugyminiszterium/ensz-eu-szankcios-tajekoztato
MALTA
https://smb.gov.mt/
NETHERLANDS
https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/onderwerpen/internationale-sancties
AUSTRIA
https://www.bmeia.gv.at/themen/aussenpolitik/europa/eu-sanktionen-nationale-behoerden/
POLAND
https://www.gov.pl/web/dyplomacja/sankcje-miedzynarodowe
https://www.gov.pl/web/diplomacy/international-sanctions
PORTUGAL
https://portaldiplomatico.mne.gov.pt/politica-externa/medidas-restritivas
ROMANIA
http://www.mae.ro/node/1548
SLOVENIA
http://www.mzz.gov.si/si/omejevalni_ukrepi
SLOVAKIA
https://www.mzv.sk/europske_zalezitosti/europske_politiky-sankcie_eu
FINLAND
https://um.fi/pakotteet
SWEDEN
https://www.regeringen.se/sanktioner
Address for notifications to the European Commission:
European Commission
Directorate-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union (DG FISMA)
Rue Joseph II 54
1049 Bruxelles/Brussel
BELGIQUE/BELGIË
Email: relex-sanctions@ec.europa.eu
OJ L, 15.1.2024 
EN  
