COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2022/547 
of 5 April 2022
imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of superabsorbent polymers originating in the 
Republic of Korea 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection 
against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1), and in particular Article 9(4) thereof,
Whereas:
1. PROCEDURE
1.1. Initiation
(1)
On 18 February 2021, the European Commission (‘the Commission’) initiated an anti-dumping investigation with 
regard to imports of superabsorbent polymers (‘SAP’ or ‘the product under investigation’) originating in the 
Republic of Korea (‘the country concerned’) on the basis of Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council (‘the basic Regulation’). It published a Notice of initiation in the Official Journal of the 
European Union (2) (‘the Notice of initiation’).
(2)
The Commission initiated the investigation following a complaint lodged by the European Superabsorbent Polymer 
Coalition, hereafter ‘ESPC’ (‘the complainant’). The complaint was made on behalf of two Union producers, which 
together account for 65% of the total Union production of superabsorbent polymer, in the sense of Article 5(4) of 
the basic Regulation. The complaint contained evidence of dumping and of resulting material injury that was 
sufficient to justify the initiation of the investigation.
1.2. Comments on initiation
1.2.1. Examination of Union interest in the complaint
(3)
After the initiation, the Coalition of users (3) claimed that the complaint ignored the interests of importers and users 
to conclude that it is in the interest of the Union to open an anti-dumping investigation on imports of SAP 
originating in the Republic of Korea, in breach of Article 21 of the basic Regulation.
(4)
Similar claims were advanced by the cooperating exporting producer, LG Chem Ltd. (‘LG Chem’).
(5)
The Commission recalls that in accordance with Articles 5(2) and 5(9) of the basic Regulation, the initiation of a 
proceeding is justified when sufficient evidence of dumping, injury and a causal link between the allegedly dumped 
imports and the alleged injury is provided in the complaint. The complainant is not required under those provisions 
to conduct a Union interest analysis in the complaint. Therefore the complaint was not deficient in this aspect.
(6)
In this regard, the Commission examined the accuracy and adequacy of the evidence provided and determined that 
there was sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of the present investigation, in accordance with Article 5(3) of 
the basic Regulation.
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21.
(2) Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of superabsorbent polymers originating in the Republic of 
Korea (OJ C 58, 18.2.2021, p. 73).
(3) For the purposes of this investigation, the Commission granted confidential treatment to the identity of the Coalition members. The 
Commission received evidence that disclosing their identities would have significant adverse consequences upon the Coalition 
members due to the threat of commercial retaliations.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/27  
(7)
Therefore, the claims were rejected.
1.2.2. Complaint inflated dumping and undercutting margin
(8)
LG Chem claimed that the complainant, by considering SAP a homogeneous product, artificially inflated the 
dumping and undercutting margins presented in the complaint. In this regard, LG Chem mostly reiterated the 
comments already provided on the product scope addressed in Section 2.3.
(9)
LG Chem further claimed that the export price provided in the Complaint was incorrectly computed. According to 
the source used in the complaint for the calculation of the export price – i.e. the Korean Trade Statistics Service – 
the export price should have been within 13% to 18% higher than the one submitted by the complainant. 
Therefore, the Commission erred when it accepted the evidence on export price submitted in the complaint.
(10)
At the stage of the complaint it is sufficient to present dumping and undercutting margins on the basis of the 
information reasonably available to the complainant and for the product as a whole. The fact that LG Chem 
considers the product under investigation not to be homogeneous did not render the comparison as made by the 
complainants faulty for the purpose of the initiation. It is rather a part of the Commission’s investigation to analyse 
if a claim for a more detailed analysis is justified.
(11)
Concerning the export price used in the complaint, the Commission noted that the higher prices highlighted by LG 
Chem in exhibit 8 of the complaint actually included the total exports under commodity code 3906 90 90, 
including products which were not product concerned, whereas the export prices used for the dumping estimation 
in paragraph 46 of the complaint solely included the product concerned, as filtered out based on an additional 
extraction query in the TRASS system (4).
(12)
The Commission therefore rejected the claims by LG Chem.
1.2.3. Level of trade
(13)
LG Chem also claimed that the complainant failed to adjust the export price for differences in level of trade, as their 
export sales to the Union market are generally channelled through a related company. Therefore, both the dumping 
and undercutting margins presented in the complaint were artificially inflated.
(14)
The Commission recalls that for deductions made to export prices, only transport costs were adjusted by the 
complainant. This is arguably a conservative approach because adjustment to export prices pursuant to Article 2(9) 
or additional deductions of sales commissions by related traders involved in the importation of the goods would 
only lower the export price and increase the dumping margin. Furthermore, even if no deductions were made for 
transport, dumping would still be significant, as is clear from the non-confidential version of the complaint. As 
regards the alleged inflated undercutting margin, the Commission considered that using an export price on the 
basis of import statistics amounts to evidence reasonably available at initiation stage for the complainants to show 
undercutting. Moreover, there are two other exporting producers in the Republic of Korea, selling directly in the 
Union market and LG Chem itself sells also directly part of its export sales. In any event, LG Chem failed to show 
how taking a different export price would result in a significant reduction of the undercutting mentioned in the 
complaint [10-30%].
(15)
Therefore this claim was rejected.
(4) To calculate the export price of SAP from the Republic of Korea during the IP, the Complainant relied on the Korean Trade Statistics 
Service (TRASS). TRASS allowed the identification of SAP exports to the European Union among products declared for exports under 
commodity code 3906 90 90 based on a specific query.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/28 
6.4.2022  
1.2.4. Open version of complaint does not allow understanding of price undercutting information
(16)
LG Chem argued that the evidence submitted in the open version of the complaint to allege the price-depressive 
effects of the South Korean imports, i.e. ‘Market Intelligence reports’ Exhibits, did not permit a proper 
understanding of the information on price undercutting.
(17)
First, the Commission recalled that the purpose of the non-confidential version of the complaint is to provide a 
meaningful summary of the information contained in the confidential version. When examining whether the 
summary is meaningful or not, one needs to consider the totality of the information contained in the non- 
confidential version on any given topic. In relation to the allegations on price undercutting and price underselling 
practised by Korean exporters, the Commission noted that section 5.3 of the non-confidential version of the 
complaint contains a comprehensive summary of the price comparisons underlying the allegations of undercutting 
and underselling, supported by meaningful summaries of the key information contained in Exhibits 5-1 to 5-3-3 to 
the complaint. The Commission considered that the narrative in the body of the complaint and the data summarised 
in the said annexes give a sufficient understanding of the allegations made in relation to price pressure. The Market 
reports are presented in the complaint as confirming the validity of the allegations. Furthermore, the Commission 
considered that the market intelligence reports on SAP imported to Europe contained a detailed analysis of potential 
strategies of market players. Even sharing a summary of the content would create an adverse effect against the service 
provider that collected the confidential information.
(18)
It is recalled that Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6.5 of the WTO Anti-Dumping Agreement (5) allow 
for the safeguarding of confidential information in circumstances where disclosure would be of significant 
competitive advantage to a competitor or would have a significantly adverse effect upon a person supplying the 
information, or upon a person from whom that person has acquired the information.
(19)
The information provided in the confidential version of the complaint falls under those categories. Moreover, the 
complainant has provided sufficient summaries of the contents of the confidential segments of the complaint.
(20)
Therefore, this claim was rejected.
1.2.5. Aggressive pricing from Far East Asian imports in 2019
(21)
Concerning price depreciation effects in 2019, LG Chem commented on Exhibit 5-3-1-C of the complaint, which 
referred vaguely to “aggressive price from Far East Asian imports". LG Chem argued that the wording could have 
equally referred to imports from Japan or China.
(22)
The Commission agrees that the wording “Far East Asian imports” does not exclusively refer to imports from the 
Republic of Korea. However, the wording clearly covers also South Korean imports. While that document alone 
would not relate to price pressure from the Republic of Korea specifically, it supports the other evidence provided 
as regards Korean imports.
(23)
Therefore, the claim that that evidence did not support the complaint was rejected.
1.2.6. Unjustified target profit in complaint
(24)
On price underselling, LG Chem claimed that there is no justification for the use of a target profit of 10% in the 
complaint.
(5) "Any information which is by nature confidential (for example, because its disclosure would be of significant competitive advantage to 
a competitor or because its disclosure would have a significantly adverse effect upon a person supplying the information or upon a 
person from whom that person acquired the information), or which is provided on a confidential basis by parties to an investigation 
shall, upon good cause shown, be treated as such by the authorities. Such information shall not be disclosed without specific 
permission of the party submitting it."
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/29  
(25)
As a threshold matter, the Commission recalled that the complaint provided sufficient evidence that the imports 
from the Republic of Korea were undercutting the Union industry prices by a significant margin of [10% - 30%]. 
This in itself constitutes already sufficient evidence of the effect of the dumped imports on prices in the Union. This 
is clear from the wording of Article 3(3) of the basic Regulation which presents price undercutting and price 
depression as possible alternative effects that dumped imports can have on prices in the Union. The allegation in 
the complaint that prices were depressed by [30% - 60%] was therefore not necessary in order for there to have 
been sufficient evidence that SAP from the Republic of Korea are being imported at injurious prices. In any event, 
the target profit chosen by the complainant is not binding for the analysis of the Commission regarding its analysis 
of price underselling. Article 7(2c) of the basic Regulation indicates that the target profit shall not be lower than 6%. 
Even adjusted to a 6% target profit the calculation of the complainant still showed a high underselling margin. It is 
therefore not relevant that the complainant did not substantiate the chosen target profit of 10%.
(26)
The Commission therefore rejected the claim that a missing justification for the chosen target profit constituted a 
fault in the complaint.
1.2.7. Investment data in the complaint should not be treated as confidential
(27)
With regards to the investments declared in the complaint, LG Chem argued that there is no rationale as to why such 
data was treated as confidential by the complainants.
(28)
As already recalled in recital (18), Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6.5 of the WTO Anti-Dumping 
Agreement allow for the safeguarding of confidential information in circumstances where disclosure would be of 
significant competitive advantage to a competitor.
(29)
The information provided in the confidential version of the complaint falls under this category. Moreover, the 
complainant provided a range for the index development for the IP compared to 2017 for investments in the open 
version. It demonstrates how investments declined substantially over the period considered and is sufficient to 
understand that injury indicator. In any event, the relevant trends are disclosed in Table 10 below.
(30)
The Commission therefore rejected the claim that it was necessary to include the detailed investment data in the 
open version of the complaint.
1.2.8. Evidence for causal link to South Korean imports
(31)
LG Chem claimed that the complaint, in breach of Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation, failed in providing any 
demonstration of the causation link between the alleged dumped imports from the Republic of Korea and the injury 
of the Union industry. According to LG Chem, the Union industry solely alleged that “the dumped imports from Korea 
exerted a downward price pressure on the EU sales prices (…) forcing the EU SAP industry to reduce their prices, thus resulting 
in dramatical loss”.
(32)
Contrary to what LG Chem alleges, the complainant provided sufficient evidence of a causal link between imports 
from the country concerned and injury. The complainant’s analysis of the injury indicators showed a coincidence in 
time between the increased volumes of low-priced South Korean imports and the deterioration in the Union 
industry performance, and thus how the South Korean imports in the Union market exerted a downward price 
pressure on the Union industry sales prices.
(33)
Therefore, this claim was rejected.
1.3. Registration of imports, non-imposition of provisional measures and subsequent procedure
(34)
On 17 September 2021, in accordance with Article 19a(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission informed 
Member States and all interested parties of its intention not to impose provisional duties on imports of 
superabsorbent polymers originating in the Republic of Korea and to continue the investigation.
(35)
Since no provisional anti-dumping measures were imposed, the Commission did not register imports under Article 
14(5a) of the basic Regulation. The Commission continued seeking and checking all information it deemed 
necessary for its definitive findings.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/30 
6.4.2022  
(36)
Following the disclosure of the Commission’s intention not to impose provisional measures, hearings took place 
with the two sampled Union producers (BASF Antwerpen NV (‘BASF’) and Nippon Shokubai Europe NV (BE) 
(‘Nippon Shokubai Europe’ or ‘NSE’), a known Union producer (Evonik Operations GmbH (‘Evonik’)), , as well as 
with the exporting producer LG Chem, in which those parties commented on the non-imposition of provisional 
measures. The parties provided their presentations and additional post-hearing comments to the file.
1.4. Investigation period and period considered
(37)
The investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020 (‘the 
investigation period’ or ‘IP’). The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of injury covered the period 
from 1 January 2017 to the end of the investigation period (‘the period considered’).
1.5. Interested parties
(38)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission invited interested parties to contact it in order to participate in the 
investigation. In addition, the Commission specifically informed the complainant, other known Union producers, 
the known exporting producers, the authorities of the Republic of Korea, known importers, known traders and 
users, as well as associations known to be concerned about the initiation of the investigation, and invited them to 
participate.
(39)
Interested parties had an opportunity to comment on the initiation of the investigation and to request a hearing with 
the Commission and/or the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings. Hearings took place with one sampled Union 
producer (BASF), a known Union producer (Evonik), the cooperating exporting producer LG Chem, and two known 
Union users (Procter & Gamble International Operations SA (‘P&G’) and FATER SpA (‘Fater’)).
1.6. Sampling
(40)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it might sample the interested parties in accordance with 
Article 17 of the basic Regulation.
1.6.1. Sampling of Union producers
(41)
In its Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it had provisionally selected a sample of Union producers. The 
Commission selected the sample on the basis of the volume of production and sales of the like product, as well as the 
geographical location. That sample consisted of two Union producers. The sampled Union producers accounted for 
more than 50% of estimated Union production and sales in the investigated period, while ensuring a good 
geographical spread, and was considered representative of the Union industry. The Commission invited interested 
parties to comment on the provisional sample. No comments were received and therefore the sample was 
confirmed.
1.6.2. Sampling of importers
(42)
To decide whether sampling is necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked unrelated importers to 
provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation.
(43)
One unrelated importer provided the requested information. In view of the low number of replies, the Commission 
decided that sampling was not necessary and asked the cooperating importer to submit replies to the questionnaires.
1.6.3. Sampling of exporting producers in the Republic of Korea
(44)
To decide whether sampling is necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked all exporting producers 
in the Republic of Korea to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. In addition, the Commission 
asked the Mission of the Republic of Korea to the European Union to identify and/or contact other exporting 
producers, if any, that could be interested in participating in the investigation.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/31  
(45)
One exporting producer in the country concerned provided the requested information and agreed to be included in 
the sample, consequently, sampling was deemed not necessary.
1.7. Questionnaire replies and verification visits
(46)
The Commission sent questionnaires to the cooperating exporting producer, the cooperating unrelated importer and 
the two sampled Union producers. The same questionnaires were made available online (6) on the day of initiation.
(47)
The Commission received questionnaire replies from the two sampled Union producers, one non-sampled Union 
producers (macro questionnaire), two users and the cooperating exporting producer. The sole unrelated importer 
which provided a sampling reply did not provide a questionnaire reply.
(48)
The Commission sought and verified all the information deemed necessary for the determination of dumping, 
resulting injury and Union interest. Due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent measures 
taken to deal with the outbreak (‘the COVID-19 Notice’) (7), the Commission was unable to carry out verification 
visits at the premises of the cooperating and sampled companies pursuant to Article 16 of the basic Regulation. 
Instead, the Commission performed remote crosschecks (‘RCCs’) of the information provided by the following 
companies via videoconference:
Union producers
— BASF Antwerpen N.V. (BE)
— Nippon Shokubai Europe NV (BE)
Users
— Company B, whose identity will remain confidential for the purpose of the investigation (8).
Related importers and traders
— LG Chem Europe GmbH (‘LG Chem Europe’)
Exporting producers in the Republic of Korea
— LG Chem, Ltd.
1.8. Definitive disclosure
(49)
On 24 January 2022, the Commission informed all interested parties of the essential facts and considerations on the 
basis of which it intended to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of superabsorbent polymers 
originating in the Republic of Korea (‘final disclosure’). In addition, the Commission sent two additional final 
disclosures on 4 February 2022 and 21 February 2022. All parties were granted a period within which they could 
make comments on the final disclosure, as well as on the additional final disclosures. The Commission received 
comments from the exporting producer LG Chem, from the Union industry, and from several users.
(50)
Following final disclosure, interested parties were granted an opportunity to be heard according to the provisions 
stipulated under point 5.7 of the Notice of initiation. Hearings took place with LG Chem, with the Coalition for an 
Open and Competitive EU SAP Market, and with Evonik.
(6) https://trade.ec.europa.eu/tdi/case_history.cfm?id=2516&init=2516
(7) Notice on the consequences of the COVID-19 outbreak on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations (OJ C 86, 16.3.2020, p. 6)).
(8) For the purposes of this investigation, the Commission granted confidential treatment to the identity of the Company B. The 
Commission received evidence that disclosing its identity would have significant adverse consequences upon Company B due to the 
threat of commercial retaliations.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/32 
6.4.2022  
(51)
Following the 2nd additional disclosure document (‘2nd ADD’) LG Chem argued that the granting of only one day to 
comment on substantial changes to the Commission’s findings, constitutes a breach of LG Chem’s rights of defence, 
especially since the source of the error had not been disclosed.
(52)
The Commission noted that LG Chem did not request any extension to the deadline for the provision of comments 
on the 2nd ADD. In addition, LG Chem was granted two hearings after the initial deadline for comments, in which it 
had the opportunity to present its comments on the 2nd ADD. During the hearing with the Hearing Officer following 
the 2nd ADD disclosure the Commission pointed out that LG Chem’s commented on a discrepancy of the data 
provided in the complaint and the in the final disclosure as well as their own market intelligence in their reply to the 
final disclosure. The Commission diligently analysed LG Chem’s comments and corrected the non-inclusion of the 
data of one company in the macro data due to a clerical error and proceeded with the 2nd ADD.
(53)
LG Chem also claimed that the disclosure of the additional data led to a significant change compared to the 
previously disclosed macro data, since not only the dimensions changed substantially, but also the trends showed 
improvement for all indicators. Furthermore, LG Chem argued that the use of ranges, triggered by the addition of 
data pertaining to a single company in the 2nd ADD, prevented LG Chem from obtaining a reasonable 
understanding of the revised macro-economic indicators.
(54)
The 2nd ADD amended the Macro data disclosed, and as a consequence also the market shares of the Union industry 
and of the importing countries. This change had been requested by LG Chem itself in its comments to the final 
disclosure prior to the 2nd ADD. Further to pointing out the dimensions of the data from the complaint, LG Chem 
even provided data from market intelligence, which shows similar values than the ranges provided in the 2nd ADD. 
Therefore, it cannot be considered that the amended data was not already anticipated in LG Chem’s defence.
(55)
In a market with a limited number of manufacturers, the additional of data of one manufacturer naturally adds a 
substantial figure to the absolute amounts, which was anticipated by LG Chem in its initial comments. However, the 
allegation that this led to improved trends for all indicators is misleading. Trends shown by all indicators went into 
the same directions as the indicators originally disclosed. The total production index stayed the same with only a 
minimal increase for the year 2018. The capacity utilisation index, the total sales index, the total employment index, 
the productivity index and the export index showed trends going in the same direction, even if not with the same 
magnitude. Contrary to what LG Chem alleges the trends were not improving, they continued to show the same 
injury, even if the magnitude of change was different.
(56)
In addition,LG Chem stated in it comments to the 2nd ADD that the revised figures on market shares actually 
confirmed LG Chem’s previous claim that imports from Korea never captured market shares from the Union 
industry. This claim demonstrates that the trends disclosed in the 2nd ADD did generally not lead to a change in 
assessment by LG Chem either. Since the analysis and the conclusions of the Commission did not change, all 
arguments made by the parties in response to the GDD also remained valid.
(57)
Finally, the use of ranges in the macro data did not prevent LG Chem from understanding the revised macro- 
indicators. These were necessary in order to maintain the confidentiality of the precise sales and other statistics of 
the Union producer whose statistics had accidentally not been taken into account during the initial disclosure. Not 
only did the indexes provided show a clear picture of the evolution of the indicators, but also the ranges were set 
narrow enough to get a reasonable understanding of the dimensions of each indicator. The Commission therefore 
rejected the argument that the short deadline constituted a breach of LG Chem’s rights of defence.
2. PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT
2.1. Product concerned
(58)
The product concerned is “superabsorbent polymers”, which is composed of irregular, round-shaped or 
agglomerated granules, in powdered form, white in appearance and insoluble in water, resulting from a 
polymerization of monomer molecules with cross-linkers to form cross-linked polymer networks, with a high 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/33  
capacity to absorb and retain water and aqueous liquids, originating in the Republic of Korea, currently falling under 
CN code ex 3906 90 90 (TARIC code 3906 90 90 17), (‘the product concerned’). The CN and TARIC codes are given 
for information only.
(59)
Due to their exceptional absorption capacity, SAP are mainly used in disposable sanitary products, such as baby 
diapers and adult incontinence diapers, and other hygiene applications, such as feminine hygiene products and pads 
for breastmilk. SAP can also be used in food-related industries, such as refrigerant or freshness-keeping agents, and in 
household products, such as disposable heating packs or environment fragrance. In addition, SAP can be used in 
agriculture for water retention. The use of SAP in disposable sanitary products is, however, by far the predominant 
use compared to other applications.
2.2. Like product
(60)
The investigation showed that the following products have the same basic physical, chemical and technical 
characteristics as well as the same basic uses:
— the product concerned;
— the product produced and sold on the domestic market of the Republic of Korea; and
— the product produced and sold in the Union by the Union industry.
(61)
The Commission concluded that those products are therefore like products within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the 
basic Regulation.
2.3. Claims regarding product scope
(62)
Based on the evidence provided in the complaint, the Commission originally defined the product under investigation 
according to the description submitted by the Union industry and provided a single product control number (‘PCN’) 
in the template questionnaires.
(63)
On 8 March 2021, the cooperating exporting producer, LG Chem, submitted a set of comments claiming that SAP 
could not be considered a homogeneous product, as differences in terms of physical, technical and chemical 
characteristics affect the end-uses and interchangeability, as well as the manufacturing processes and the associated 
costs of production and sales prices, of the product under investigation. The same comments were also submitted 
by the Coalition of users on the product’s end-uses, interchangeability, manufacturing process and distribution 
channels. In order to analyse those claims, the Commission decided to request updated information on a more 
detailed PCN basis, from the exporting producer and the Union producers, as shown in section 2.3.5.
2.3.1. Exclusion request for spec-in products
(64)
First, LG Chem requested the exclusion from the investigation of the so-called “spec-in” products, namely SAP 
products that are customized to specifically meet customers’ demands and needs. It explained that their physical, 
technical and chemical characteristics make such product types non-interchangeable with other SAP products.
(65)
Similar claims were advanced for “co-developed” SAP products, namely products that have been developed jointly 
between LG Chem and a specific customer to meet requirements that are exclusive to such a customer. In addition 
to the characteristics already described for “spec-in” products, “co-developed” products present further differences in 
terms of distribution channels, manufacturing process and costs of production. Therefore, LG Chem requested the 
exclusion of “co-developed” SAP products from the scope of the investigation.
(66)
LG Chem also requested the exclusion of specific distribution channels for long-term purchases and global allocation 
contracts from the scope of the product concerned as they do not compete on the Union market.
(67)
LG Chem, however, did not allege that spec-in or co-developed products could only be produced by LG Chem and 
that there would be no competition between different suppliers. Instead, “spec-in” and “co-developed” products are 
produced by Union producers as well, upon specific customers’ request, as described in recitals (64) and (65). 
Moreover, the Commission concluded that even the users of “spec-in” SAP or “co-developed” SAP still operate a 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/34 
6.4.2022  
multi-sourcing strategy for supply stability including various different suppliers and different production locations, 
including Union suppliers. In addition, LG Chem did not request to include spec-in or co-developed products as one 
of the characteristics at the level of the PCN to take into account the alleged differences in cost of production or 
prices. Moreover, the Commission found no evidence that such differences existed.
(68)
The Commission therefore rejected the request to exclude spec-in products or co-developed products.
2.3.2. Exclusion request for odour-control SAP
(69)
Second, LG Chem requested to exclude odour-control SAP products from the scope of the investigation, as they 
differ from the other SAP products in terms of technical and chemical characteristics, manufacturing process, 
associated costs and end-uses. It explained that the odour control functionality is obtained by adding extra raw 
materials through a particular chemical composition, which results in a more expensive price to the final 
customers. On those grounds, it was claimed that odour-control products cannot be interchanged with other SAP 
products. LG Chem also commented that its imports of odour-control products were very limited and thus South 
Korean imports of odour-control products could not have caused injury to the Union odour-control SAP producers.
(70)
The Commission verified several SAP supply contracts, which contained the option for the customer to choose 
between odour-control SAP and non-odour-control SAP without any price difference. This demonstrates that both 
ranges of SAP directly compete with each other, despite their technical and chemical differences.
(71)
The Commission therefore rejected the exclusion request. However, as shown in section 2.3.5, the Commission 
included odour control as one of the characteristics at the level of the PCN to take into account possible differences 
in prices resulting from the addition of odour-control materials.
2.3.3. Exclusion request for Bio SAP
(72)
Third, LG Chem requested the exclusion of organic SAP (so-called ‘Bio SAP’) products from the scope of the 
investigation, which chemically differ from non-bio SAP products because biodiesel, instead of crude oil, is used as 
raw material. LG Chem further explained that Bio SAP present a different manufacturing process and associated 
costs compared to non-bio SAP products, which result in a more expensive price to the final customers. On those 
grounds, it was claimed that Bio SAP cannot be interchanged with other SAP products. LG Chem also commented 
that South Korean producers do not supply Bio SAP products to the Union market and, as a result, imports of 
South Korean Bio SAP could not have caused injury to the Union industry. LG Chem reiterated these comments 
following the final disclosure.
(73)
The complaint covered both non-bio SAP and Bio SAP, as the Union industry makes both. Furthermore, SAP is 
produced in a multitude of varieties, which differ in shape and characteristics. LG Chem did not sufficiently 
substantiate that Bio SAP would have a separate market and would not be in competition with SAP made from 
crude oil. The Commission therefore rejected the exclusion request.
2.3.4. Exclusion request for industrial SAP
(74)
Fourth, LG Chem requested the exclusion of industrial SAP products from the scope of the investigation and argued 
that SAP for non-hygiene uses cannot be equated to SAP for hygiene uses. It explained that the two categories differ 
in physical, chemical and technical characteristics, as SAP products for industrial use tend to have smaller particle 
size. On those grounds, it was claimed that SAP for hygiene uses could not be interchanged with SAP for industrial 
uses. LG Chem also commented that South Korean imports of industrial SAP products corresponded to a niche 
market, representing around 1% to 3% of the total SAP market in the Union, and, as a result, they could not have 
caused injury to the Union industry.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/35  
(75)
The complaint covers both SAP for hygiene use and for industrial use, as the Union industry makes both. Even 
though the end-uses differ, the manufacturing process and the overall chemical and technical characteristics broadly 
overlap. It is also not necessary that all product types within an investigation directly compete with each other. As 
shown in section 2.3.5, the Commission followed the request to differentiate between hygiene use and industrial 
use by introducing those categories into the PCN.
2.3.5. PCN breakdown proposals
(76)
On 12 March 2021, LG Chem submitted comments and reiterated its claims on the non-homogeneous nature of the 
product concerned, opposing the complainant’s statement that SAP was characterized by its functional capability 
rather than its chemical structure. In that regard, LG Chem emphasized that the use of a single PCN would not have 
allowed for a fair comparison among different types of SAP products, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation, and proposed a PCN breakdown. It differentiated SAP products in terms of raw materials used in the 
production process, shape, average centrifugal retention capacity (‘CRC’), additives and additional functionalities – 
including foamed products, anti-caking, anti-discoloration and odour control – and uses.
(77)
On 19 March 2021, the sampled Union producers, BASF and Nippon Shokubai Europe, submitted comments in 
response to LG Chem’s submission. As a preliminary comment, they claimed that LG Chem’s comments on the 
product scope were submitted beyond the deadline set in the Notice of Initiation and thus they should be 
disregarded and rejected.
(78)
With regards to LG Chem’s submission on the PCN breakdown as stated in recital (76), the Union producers claimed 
that, although it was correct to affirm that SAP was characterised by a number of different parameters that may vary 
depending on customers’ requirements and preferences, none of the parameters was more relevant than the others in 
the differentiation of SAP products. In particular, they claimed, and submitted evidence in support, that differences in 
terms of shape, CRC, additives and additional functionalities did not impede product comparability and did not lead 
to significant price differences.
(79)
With regards to the differentiation of SAP products on the grounds of uses, the Union producers concurred in 
affirming that SAP intended for hygiene uses should be distinguished from SAP for non-hygiene uses, as end-uses 
might induce differences in prices. However, the EU industry opposed any distinction made within the hygiene 
market segment proposed by LG Chem – i.e. baby care, adult care or feminine care products – and claimed that SAP 
products for hygiene uses were comparable to each other. On those grounds, BASF and Nippon Shokubai Europe 
opposed the PCN breakdown proposed by LG Chem and submitted that one single PCN would not prevent LG 
Chem to claim an adjustment under Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation.
(80)
To summarize, the Union producers opposed LG Chem’s request for product exclusion as described in sections 2.3.1 
and claimed that LG Chem had failed to demonstrate substantive differences between SAP products for which the 
exclusion was requested in terms of technical and physical characteristics, uses, customers’ perception or interchan­
geability, and other SAP products.
(81)
Following the request for a differentiated PCN, the Commission decided to collect more data to analyse the request.
(82)
Based on the evidence on file, the Commission submitted a Note to the file on 9 April 2021, inviting all interested 
parties to submit data and comment on a new PCN breakdown which would take into consideration differences 
among SAP products in terms of raw materials used in the production process, shape, CRC, foamed and non- 
foamed products, anti-caking, anti-discoloration, odour-control and uses.
(83)
The sampled Union producers, BASF and Nippon Shokubai Europe, together with Union producer Evonik, reiterated 
the claims opposing a PCN breakdown, claiming that it was arbitrary and selective and would only serve to support 
LG Chem’s individual interest in the investigation.
(84)
On the other hand, two users, FATER and P&G, welcomed the decision to introduce a new PCN breakdown. Both 
users further requested to add one criterion of distinction, namely ‘T20 – Dynamic Absorption Speed’ in seconds, i. 
e. the speed by which the SAP absorbs liquids under pressure. In their submissions, the two users explained that the 
T20 method had been developed and significantly improved by P&G in the previous decade, and was currently used 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/36 
6.4.2022  
by both P&G and FATER in ‘Sap Generation 8’ products, which were likely to transition to ‘SAP Generation 9’ 
products in 2022. Therefore, the introduction of that criterion was deemed essential by the two users, in order to 
ensure the greatest degree of product and price comparability with other SAP products.
(85)
The Commission considered that the absorption speed is a general characteristic, which differs in all SAP. To 
differentiate all kinds of SAP would, however, prevent any comparison of prices. The Commission therefore rejected 
the request for introducing that criterion in its analysis.
(86)
On 22 April 2021, the Commission, having considered all the comments received by the interested parties and 
based on the evidence on the file, decided to modify the PCN breakdown proposed in the Note to the file of 9 April 
2021. The final PCN breakdown took into consideration differences among SAP products in terms of raw materials 
used in the production process, shape, CRC, odour-control and uses and, thus, the differences stemming from 
foamed and non-foamed products, anti-caking and anti-discoloration were discarded. The Commission requested 
the sampled Union producers and the exporting producer to resubmit the parts of the questionnaire replies that 
were PCN-based, by using the final PCN breakdown.
(87)
Following the decision on the final PCN breakdown, on 27 May 2021 LG Chem argued that the comments by 
interested parties that justified the change of the final PCN breakdown were not added in a timely fashion to the 
non-confidential file of the investigation, in breach of Article 6(7) of the basic Regulation.
(88)
The Commission granted LG Chem an extension of deadline to submit comments on those comments.
(89)
LG Chem further argued that the data of other parties in response to the detailed PCN did not permit a reasonable 
understanding of the information submitted in confidence.
(90)
The data referred to by LG Chem was considered by the Commission to be highly confidential as competitors could 
through the use of that data understand the business strategies of the Union Industry. The Commission considered 
the non-confidential summaries to be representative of the data provided in confidence, and allowed other 
interested parties to appropriately exercise their rights of defence. Therefore, the claim was rejected.
2.3.6. Product exclusion request for SAP Generation 8 & 9
(91)
Following the disclosure of the final PCN breakdown, two users, FATER and P&G, requested the exclusion of the 
so-called ‘SAP Generation 8 & 9’ product types, on the grounds that there were specific physical, technical and 
chemical characteristics that would not allow the interchangeability with other SAP product types. In particular, as 
described above in recital (84), the users claimed that the T20 method differentiates ‘SAP Generation 8 & 9’ 
products from all other SAP products on the Union market.
(92)
The Commission investigated the claims and concluded that all SAP products were subject to a certain extent to 
different technical or chemical specifications. However, in the end, they have the same end use and are 
exchangeable, still falling under the definition of the product concerned as mentioned in recital (58). Any minor 
differences in specifications are catered for by the additional information at the level of the PCN. Therefore, the T20 
method used in ‘SAP Generation 8 & 9’ did not justify their exclusion from the product scope of the investigation. 
Therefore, the claims were rejected.
(93)
In their comments after final disclosure, P&G and Fater claimed that the Commission inaccurately portrayed the 
absorption speed as a “general characteristic” which differs in all SAP products. They commented that, as a 
consequence, the five descriptors used in the final PCN breakdown could be equally considered “general 
characteristics” that differ in all SAP products. P&G and Fater thus suggested that the use of the T20 level as a 
threshold in the PCN breakdown would have enabled the Commission to arrive at a more accurate PCN analysis.
(94)
They further claimed that the Commission failed to substantiate the reasons for which “the T20 method used in ‘SAP 
Generation 8 & 9’ did not justify their exclusion from the product scope”. They also argued that the Commission 
failed to address the additional factors characterising the T20 method, such as the manufacturing process and 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/37  
consumer perception, as well as its differences in terms of physical, technical and chemical characteristics, in 
concluding that all SAP products have “the same end use and are exchangeable” and that “any minor differences in 
specifications are catered for by the additional information at the level of the PCN”.
(95)
P&G and Fater also claimed that the Commission disregarded the evidence provided in support of the fact that the 
manufacturing process for SAP Generation 8 & 9 is fundamentally different from that of other types of SAP.
(96)
Finally, P&G and Fater claimed that the exclusion of SAP Generation 8 & 9 products from the scope of this 
investigation would be in the Union interest, as it would avoid a detrimental impact on the prices of P&G and 
Fater’s diapers to retailers while allowing the anti-dumping measures on imports of other SAP products to remain in 
place.
(97)
As disclosed to interested parties, the Commission concluded that the technical differences alone did not justify the 
exclusion (see recital (92)). P&G and Fater did not dispute that the production of this kind of SAP is based on the 
same raw materials as other SAP and that the use in baby and adult hygiene products competes with other SAP used 
in the same kind of products. Moreover, the fact alone that specific users have tailored their production to a SAP with 
specific characteristics does not justify the exclusion. The Commission therefore rejected the claim that it failed to 
address any factors in its assessment. The Union interest is further addressed in section 6.
2.3.7. Product exclusion request by Kimberly-Clark
(98)
In its submission after the final disclosure, Kimberly-Clark asked the Commission to exclude a specific type of SAP 
used in its manufacturing process from the product scope. .
(99)
The Commission noted that Kimberly-Clark did not bring forward any evidence to support its claim concerning 
different technical characteristics. It also did not dispute that its specific type of SAP is based on the same raw 
materials as other SAP and that it competes with other SAP used in the same kind of products. In addition, due to 
the submission of this exclusion request at a very late stage of the procedure, the Commission was not in a position 
to verify the claims that certain producers would not be able to produce this type of SAP. The Commission therefore 
rejected the exclusion request.
3. DUMPING
3.1. Normal value
(100) Sampling was not applied for exporting producers in the Republic of Korea. LG Chem was the only cooperating 
exporting producer of the product concerned in the Republic of Korea.
(101) The Commission first examined whether LG Chem’s total volume of domestic sales was representative, in 
accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales are representative if the total domestic sales 
volume of the like product to independent customers on the domestic market per exporting producer represented at 
least 5% of its total export sales volume of the product concerned to the Union during the investigation period. On 
that basis, the total sales of LG Chem of the like product on the domestic market were representative.
(102) The Commission subsequently identified the product types sold domestically by LG Chem that were identical or 
comparable with the product types sold for export to the Union with representative domestic sales.
(103) The Commission then examined whether the domestic sales by LG Chem on its domestic market for each product 
type that is identical or comparable with a product type sold for export to the Union were representative, in 
accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation. The domestic sales of a product type are representative if the 
total volume of domestic sales of that product type to independent customers during the investigation period 
represents at least 5% of the total volume of export sales of the identical or comparable product type to the Union.
(104) The Commission established that four product types were not sold by LG Chem on its domestic market. For those 
product types the normal value was constructed as explained in recitals (111) to (112).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/38 
6.4.2022  
(105) One product type was sold at volumes representing 4.3% of the total volume of export sales of LG Chem to the 
Union, only slightly below the 5% threshold. As its sales price was in line with the prices of comparable models sold 
on the domestic market, the Commission considered it representative for the market concerned.
(106) The Commission next defined the proportion of profitable sales to independent customers in the domestic market 
for each product type during the investigation period in order to decide whether to use actual domestic sales for the 
calculation of the normal value, in accordance with Article 2(4) of the basic Regulation.
(107) The normal value is based on the actual domestic price per product type, irrespective of whether those sales are 
profitable or not, if:
(a) the sales volume of the product type, sold at a net sales price equal to or above the calculated cost of production, 
represented more than 80% of the total sales volume of that product type; and
(b) the weighted average sales price of that product type is equal to or higher than the unit cost of production.
(108) In this case, the normal value is the weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales of that product type during 
the IP.
(109) The normal value is the actual domestic price per product type of only the profitable domestic sales of the product 
types during the IP, if:
(a) the volume of profitable sales of the product type represents 80% or less of the total sales volume of that type: or
(b) the weighted average price of this product type is below the unit cost of production.
(110) The analysis of domestic sales showed that more than 80% (9) of all domestic sales of the product types that are 
identical or comparable with the product types sold for export to the Union were profitable and that the weighted 
average sales price was higher than the cost of production. Accordingly, for those product types the normal value 
was calculated as a weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales during the IP.
(111) For those product types with no sales of the like product in representative quantities on the domestic market, the 
Commission constructed the normal value in accordance with Article 2(3) and (6) of the basic Regulation.
(112) For the four product types not sold at all on the domestic market, the weighted average SG&A expenses and profit of 
all transactions made in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market were added.
3.2. Export price
(113) LG Chem exported to the Union either directly to independent customers or indirectly through LG Chem Europe, a 
related importer in the Union.
(114) For sales of the product concerned directly to independent customers in the Union, the export price was the price 
actually paid or payable for the product concerned when sold for export to the Union, in accordance with Article 
2(8) of the basic Regulation.
(115) In its comments on final disclosure LG Chem contested the adjustment the Commission made to the allowance for 
credit cost for its direct sales to the Union using the 3 month interest rate in Korea and based on the currency of the 
accounts of the company (KRW). In its view the Commission should have used the LIBOR rate used by LG Chem in 
its questionnaire reply and based on the invoice currency (EUR).
(116) LG Chem argued that the allowance should reflect the cost based on the payment terms agreed at the time of sale. In 
its view the payment terms agreed are the currencies in which the invoices are denominated and therefore the 
Commission should have applied the LIBOR short-term interest rates for EUR.
(9) The exact figure is not provided as this is company-specific data.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/39  
(117) The Commission disagreed with this view. As explained also in the questionnaire, “credit refers to the cost of the time the 
buyer is given to pay the goods, i.e. agreed in the terms of payment”. Therefore, the terms agreed are the days the buyer is 
given to pay the invoice. As for the interest rate it should reflect the cost the company would have paid for its own 
short-term borrowing of the same amount of the invoice. Therefore, it should be based on KRW, which is the 
functional currency of the company.
(118) The export price for sales made through LG Chem Europe was established on the basis of the price at which the 
imported product was first resold to independent customers in the Union, in accordance with Article 2(9) of the 
basic Regulation. In this case, adjustments to the price were made for all costs incurred between importation and 
resale, including SG&A expenses, and for profits accruing.
(119) With respect to the profit margin used, LG Chem Europe claimed that its own profit margin should be used as, in its 
view, it was accurate and reasonable.
(120) However, the allocation method was found to be fully affected by the association between the two companies as it 
was directly allocated by LG Chem. The transfer price therefore was not a price that would have been established in 
a negotiation with an independent importer. The Commission therefore concluded that the profit margin of LG 
Chem Europe was not reasonable. Pursuant to Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation, it is considered appropriate to 
use a reasonable profit margin independent of the actual profit resulting from the transfer price in order to avoid 
any distorting effects that may arise from the transfer price, in line with established case-law of Union courts. 
Therefore, the claim was dismissed.
(121) In the absence of any cooperating unrelated importer the Commission decided to resort to the profit margin used in 
a previous proceeding concerning another chemical product manufactured by a similar industry and imported under 
similar circumstances, namely a profit margin of 6.89% (10) established in the polyvinyl alcohols (PVA) investigation. 
In the Commission’s view that profit margin is the most objective basis available for the purpose of arriving at a 
satisfactory estimate of an arm's length export price.
(122) After final disclosure the company reiterated its claim and submitted a calculation aimed to demonstrate that the 
cost of LG Chem Europe’s purchases from LG Chem was higher than the sales price of identical PCNs sold directly 
by LG Chem to unrelated customers in the Union. Hence, in its view, this demonstrated that LG Chem Europe profit 
margin was based on an arm’s length cost of purchases and should therefore be used for the adjustment under 
Article 2(9).
(123) In its calculation, LG Chem compared the price of the LG Chem Europe (after deducting allowances, SGA and profit 
as established in the PVA investigation) with direct sales of LG Chem in the EU (after deducting allowances) and 
therefore did not provide any evidence contradicting the argument that the profit allocation was fully affected by 
the association between the two companies, as established during the investigation. In addition, the ex-works prices 
of LG Chem Europe plus SG&A and profit established in the PVA investigation were on average [5% - 8%] higher 
than the ex-work prices of the direct sales of LG Chem. In the Commission’s view, this range is perfectly in line with 
the mark-up an unrelated importer would charge. The claim was therefore dismissed
(124) LG Chem also contested the use of the profit margin established in the PVA investigation. The company argued that 
it was established in a different period of time than the current investigation and that there were significant 
differences in the distribution of SAP as compared with PVA. In its view, first the market condition for PVA changed 
significantly reducing the profit margin of importers in the chemical sector when compared with the IP of the 
current investigation and second, SAP is a product co-developed between the producer and the client that is usually 
sold via long-term contracts, while PVA is a commodity product sold through spot sales.
(125) The Commission does not consider the profit margin established in the PVA investigation inappropriate. First, 
information collected form interested parties showed that the average profit margin of importers in the speciality 
chemicals sector ranged between 10% and 15% in 2020. Second, contrary to the argument of LG Chem, PVA is also 
a product that is often developed according to clients’ specification and it is often sold via long-term contracts, as 
(10) Recital (352) of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1336, of 25 September 2020 imposing definitive anti-dumping 
duties on imports of certain polyvinyl alcohols originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 315, 29.9.2020, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/40 
6.4.2022  
confirmed in the PVA investigation. Third, the data collected showed that the profit of the cooperating unrelated 
importers in the PVA investigation remained in the same range also before the IP of the PVA investigation. 
Therefore, this claim was rejected.
3.3. Undertaking offer
(126) Following final disclosure, within the deadline specified in Article 8(2) of the basic Regulation, LG Chem, together 
with LG Chem Europe, submitted an offer for a price undertaking. The company offered two average minimum 
import prices (MIPs) subject to indexation.
(127) In a set of comments submitted to the Commission, the complainants and Evonik opposed LG Chem’s offer for a 
number of reasons, such as the risk for price cross-compensation and the risk that the MIP could become a 
reference price on the Union market and thereby reduce competition. They requested that LG Chem’s offer be 
rejected.
(128) Further, the complainants and Evonik argued that the Republic of Korea’s lack of compliance with certain provisions 
of the ILO conventions could distort the costs of production of the Korean SAP and ultimately affect any price 
comparison between the Union industry prices and the Korean import prices. They requested the Commission to 
take such distortion into account in the present investigation, at the very least in the examination of any price 
undertaking offer submitted by the exporting producer.
(129) The Commission did not consider that it had sufficient evidence in the context of the present investigation regarding 
the non-compliance with certain provision of the ILO conventions in order to reach any conclusions with regard to 
distortions of labour costs. In any event, the undertaking offer presented by LG Chem had to be rejected on other 
grounds and an assessment was thus not necessary in that regard.
(130) According to Article 8 of the basic Regulation, price undertaking offers must be adequate to eliminate the injurious 
effect of dumping and their acceptance must not be considered impractical. The Commission assessed the offer in 
view of these criteria and concluded that its acceptance would be impractical and not eliminate the injurious effects 
of dumping for the following reasons.
(131) First, the price of the product concerned and of the raw materials on which the proposed indexation was based are 
volatile. Faced with such volatility, it cannot be guaranteed that a MIP would be sufficient to eliminate the injurious 
effects of dumping over the duration of measures.
(132) Second, LG Chem exported several different product types during the investigation period, with a price variation of 
[30% - 40%]. A weighted average MIP per category of the product concerned would result in a MIP which would be 
below the non-dumped price for some SAP product types, also taking into account the price volatility as explained 
above.
(133) Third, the proposed MIPs are indexed on the two principal raw materials for the price formula of SAP, propylene and 
caustic soda. However, other important factors such as energy costs are not taken into account in the indexation.
(134) Fourth, SAP product types and PCNs cannot be easily distinguished from one another by physical inspection. This 
entails a high risk of more expensive product types possibly being misdeclared as cheaper product types. This 
renders the undertaking difficult to monitor and thus impractical within the meaning of Article 8 of the basic 
Regulation.
(135) Fifth, LG Chem has a global structure composed by several related companies, inside and outside the Union, and sells 
a large number of other chemical products to global customers based in and outside the Union. SAP is often sold via 
global allocation contracts in which a customer located in several locations worldwide negotiates with LG Chem for 
volume and prices for all its related entities. Under these circumstances, it would be impossible for the Commission 
to effectively monitor these transactions since they would take place outside the Union and this would allow LG 
Chem to easily cross-compensate prices in the Union with prices outside the Union for global customers. This, on 
its own, would make the offer impractical.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/41  
(136) The Commission sent a letter to the applicant, setting out the above reasons for rejecting the undertaking offer. The 
applicant submitted comments thereto. These comments were made available to interested parties on the case file.
(137) In its comments, LG Chem contested the reasons the Commission put forward to reject its undertaking offer. In LG 
Chem’s view the indexation mechanism proposed was capable of capturing the price volatility and ensuring that the 
MIP eliminated the margin of dumping over the entire duration of the measures. As regards the different product 
types, LG Chem claimed that the significant price variation of the different product types was caused by one single 
PCN exported in limited quantities, and it offered to revise its offer basing it on the three simplified PCNs used for 
undercutting purpose. It further argued that there was no risk of cross-compensation among the different product 
types, since the different characteristics can be easily verified by customs authorities through sales documents and 
technical data sheet which have to be prepared by LG Chem for each shipment. Finally, LG Chem argued that there 
was no risk of cross-compensation through the long term and global allocation contracts and offered to provide 
information on sales made to global customers inside and outside the EU to mitigate the risk.
(138) The Commission acknowledged that the proposed indexation could capture at least part of the observed price 
volatility. However, the proposed MIPs were only partially based on the price formula of raw materials while the 
fixed part, which accounts for around 50% of the price of SAP, was fixed. Moreover, also as regards the different 
product types, even if the single PCN exported in limited quantities was not taken into account, the price variation 
of the remaining nine PCNs would still be of around [15% - 30%]. As regards the risk of cross compensation, in the 
Commission’s view the sales documents alone would not prevent the risk of misdeclaration since the custom 
authorities would only be able to rely on those declarations. Finally, the Commission acknowledges LG Chem’s offer 
to provide information on sales made to global customers. However, in Commission’s view, this would not mitigate 
the risk of cross-compensation as the Commission would not have the means to verify that all the relevant 
information have been provided and it would be extremely difficult to enforce LG Chem’s commitment. The claim 
was therefore dismissed.
(139) Furthermore, LG Chem claimed that the reasons put forward by the Commission to reject its price undertaking offer 
were not consistent with the findings of the general disclosure document. The company argued that: (i) the 
Commission acknowledged that the price of the product concerned was volatile but, in its view, this was not 
consistent with the allegation that the Korean imports suppressed the prices of the Union industry, (ii) the 
Commission argued that LG Chem exported 10 different product types that could be identified by factors such as 
the shape of the product granules, the degree of porosity, the bulk density and the particle size distribution, 
contrary to the general disclosure document where the Commission based the undercutting and injury margin 
calculation on a simplified PCN, which only considers the inclusion of odour control and the use of the product 
(hygienic against industrial), (iii) in the general disclosure document the Commission did not consider the SAP price 
formula and the Union producers’ costs as relevant factors causing injury to the Union industry, while it did consider 
it to reject the undertaking offer, (iv) the Commission took into account the relevance of long-term and global 
allocation contracts to reject LG Chem’s undertaking offer, but did not consider it in the general disclosure 
document, especially as regards the export performance of the Union industry and the effects of imports from Japan.
(140) Those arguments had to be dismissed. First, the fact the prices were considered volatile, i.e. prices fluctuate in 
accordance with raw material prices, was already analysed by the Commission. It was found to have a negligible 
impact on profitability and prices of the Union industry, as explained in recitals (283) to (288), as, due to the 
dumped imports from Korea, the Union industry was unable to raise prices to the same extent as its costs of 
production (see also recital (249)). Second, the Commission considered the different characteristics of SAP in 
relation to the ability of custom officials to distinguish the different product types and the enforceability of the 
proposed undertaking. However, as explained in recital (182), in the Commission’s view, the simplified PCN used in 
the undercutting calculation was sufficiently detailed to capture the cost and price influence of the main 
characteristics of SAP. Third, as for the previous point, the global allocation contracts were considered relevant as 
they pose a threat to the monitoring and enforceability of the undertaking due to the risk of cross-compensation. 
Moreover, LG Chem’s comments as regards the impact of the global allocation contracts on the effects of imports 
from Japan, the export performance of the Union industry and the global price negotiation were analysed by the 
Commission in sections 5.2.3, 5.2.4 and 5.2.8.
(141) Therefore, the Commission considered the undertaking offer unenforceable and thus impractical within the meaning 
of Article 8 of the basic Regulation, and therefore rejected the offer.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/42 
6.4.2022  
3.4. Comparison
(142) The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the cooperating exporting producer on an 
ex-works basis.
(143) Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation. The normal value was adjusted for transport, packing expenses, credit costs and expenses for technical 
assistance. The export price for handling, loading and ancillary costs, transport, insurance, packing expenses, 
import charges and duty drawback, credit costs, bank charges, expenses for technical assistance when they were 
found to be reasonable, accurate and supported by verified evidence.
(144) LG Chem claimed a level of trade adjustment on domestic sales. The company argued that the sales functions for 
export sales to the Union are carried out not only by its related importer LG Chem Europe, but also by the sales 
team in LG Chem’s headquarters in the Republic of Korea. In its view, since the Commission adjusted the export 
price for the SG&A expenses of the related importer, in accordance with Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation, by 
analogy, the Commission should also deduct from the domestic price the selling expenses borne by the sales team 
in the Republic of Korea for its domestic sales.
(145) That claim had to be dismissed. First, the adjustment under Article 2(9) of the basic regulation aims at constructing a 
reliable export price not affected by the relationship between the exporter in the exporting country and the related 
importer in the Union. The adjustments must cover all costs incurred between importation and resale (and for 
profits accruing) insofar as those items are normally borne by an importer. LG Chem has not provided any evidence 
that the construction of the export price pursuant to Article 2(9) has gone beyond what is required under that 
provision. The fact that the determination of the normal value and of the export price is governed by different 
disciplines is not as such a factor that affects price comparability and that needs to be addressed under an 
adjustment under Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation. LG Chem has not adduced evidence that the adjustments 
performed under Article 2(10) as recalled in recital (143) are not adequate to perform a fair comparison between 
the export price and the normal value, or that they made sales to different types of customers on the domestic 
market compared to the Union market.
3.5. Dumping margin
(146) The Commission compared the weighted average normal value of each type of the like product with the weighted 
average export price of the corresponding type of the product concerned, in accordance with Article 2(11) and (12) 
of the basic Regulation.
(147) On that basis, the definitive weighted average dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the cost, insurance, 
freight (‘CIF’) Union frontier price, duty unpaid, amounts to 13.4% for the sole cooperating exporting producer.
(148) For all other exporting producers in the Republic of Korea, the Commission established the dumping margin on the 
basis of the facts available, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. To that end, the Commission 
determined the level of cooperation of the exporting producers.
(149) As there were two other producers in the Republic of Korea that did not cooperate in the investigation, the 
Commission considered cooperation to be low. Thus, the Commission considered it appropriate to set the residual 
dumping margin at the level of the highest dumping margin of a representative product type.
(150) The definitive dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty unpaid, are as 
follows:
Company
Definitive dumping margin
LG Chem. Ltd.
13,4%
All other companies
18,8%
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/43  
4. INJURY
4.1. Definition of the Union industry and Union production
(151) The like product was manufactured by five producers in the Union during the investigation period. They constitute 
the ‘Union industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation.
(152) The total Union production during the investigation period was established at around 346 590 tonnes. The 
Commission established the figure on the basis of all the available information concerning the Union industry, such 
as the replies to the anti-dumping questionnaires by the sampled Union producers as well as the reply to the macro 
questionnaire by a non-sampled Union producer. That data was cross-checked with the figures in the complaint for 
reliability and completeness. As indicated in recital (41), the two sampled Union producers represented more than 
50% of the total Union production of the like product.
4.2. Determination of the relevant Union market
(153) The Commission found that the totality of the Union producers' production was destined for the free market, and 
thus subject to direct competition with imports from the country concerned. On those grounds, the Commission 
examined all economic indicators relating to the Union industry in their totality.
4.3. Union consumption
(154) The Commission established the Union consumption on the basis of the sampled Union producers’ replies to the 
anti-dumping questionnaire, the macro questionnaire as well as the imports based on the Eurostat data.
(155) Union consumption developed as follows:
Table 1
Union consumption (tonnes) 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Total Union 
consumption
[630 000- 
665 000]
[630 000- 
665 000]
[630 000- 
665 000]
[630 000- 665 000]
Index
100
100
100
100
Source: sampled and non-sampled Union producers as well as Eurostat
(156) During the period considered, the total free market consumption stayed stable with minimal fluctuations clearly 
below 1%..
4.4. Imports from the country concerned
4.4.1. Volume and market share of the imports from the country concerned
(157) The Commission established the volume of imports on the basis of the CN code (11) extracted from the Eurostat 
database, adjusted by information from TRASS provided in the complaint, in order to single out imports of the 
product concerned. That adjustment was necessary as the Eurostat data for the CN code included a proportion of 
other products, which would distort both quantities and prices. The adjustment was not contested by any interested 
parties. The market share of the imports was established on the basis of import volume from the country concerned 
as compared to the volume of total Union consumption as shown in Table 2.
(11) CN code 3906 90 90
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/44 
6.4.2022  
(158) Following final disclosure, LG Chem requested additional disclosure on the methodology used to determine import 
volumes and values, as well as a disclosure of the detailed data extraction from TRASS. The Commission provided 
the following additional information:
(159) As explained in paragraph 18 of the complaint, CN code 3906 90 90 is not exclusively dedicated to SAP. The 
complainant has provided an estimation of the proportion of SAP contained in all volume cleared under CN code 
3906 90 90 based on the TRASS data. As visible from the open version of Annex 5-1 “Imports of SAP to the EU” to 
the complaint, during the period considered, the volume of SAP exports to the EU corresponded to 84% of the total 
imports customs cleared under CN code 3906 90 90. The Annex further indicates that this information was used by 
the complainant to make adjustments to the Eurostat data.
(160) The Commission used the same methodology as the complainant, which was found appropriate and not contested, 
as mentioned in recital (119) of the General Disclosure Document (‘GDD’) of the final disclosure.
(161) The Commission further clarified that the TRASS database allows the denomination of the products to be selected. 
Thus, TRASS export volume and value from Korea to the EU made under HS code 3906 90 90 were filtered in 
order to only include product denominations corresponding to SAP. 15 products were selected.
(162) TRASS however only allows data extraction when data of at least 3 companies is available. For 2018 this was not the 
case. Since the ratio of SAP exports in TRASS to the Eurostat data under CN code 3906 90 90 was stable for the 
other years, the Commission calculated a value for 2018 using the average ratio of the other years.
(163) The underlying TRASS data is subject to copyright protection and cannot be disclosed by the Commission, but is 
available for purchase.
(164) Imports from the country concerned developed as follows over the period considered:
Table 2
Import volume (tonnes) and market share 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Volume of imports 
from the country 
concerned (tonnes)
83 499
94 343
114 896
110 903
Index
100
113
138
133
Market share
[12%-14%]
[13%-15%]
[16%-18%]
[16%-18%]
Index
100
114
138
133
Source: Eurostat and TRASS data
(165) Imports from the Republic of Korea increased from around 83 500 tonnes to around 110 900 tonnes over the 
period considered, representing an overall increase of 33% between 2017 and the IP. That increase was significantly 
higher than the increase in consumption.
(166) The most significant increase in volume of imports from the Republic of Korea was registered between 2018 
and 2019, with a year-on-year increase of 22%, followed by a decrease of 3.5% between 2019 and the IP.
(167) As a result, the market share of imports of South Korean products increased from [12%-14%] to [16%-18%] over the 
period considered, representing an increase of 33% between 2017 and the investigation period. It should be noted 
that both volumes of imports and market share of the Republic of Korea showed an overall rapid increase during 
the period considered.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/45  
4.4.2. Prices of the imports from the country concerned and price undercutting
(168) The Commission established the prices of imports on the basis of Eurostat data, using the TARIC code indicated in 
recital (157) adjusted by the data from TRASS, as explained in recitals (157) to (162).
(169) Following final disclosure, LG Chem pointed out that Eurostat data contained prices on CIF basis. The Commission 
took this into account and thus converted the FOB import prices from the TRASS database to CIF by using the ratio 
between FOB to CIF value from the verified data of LG Chem. The adjusted figures are shown below in Table 3.
(170) The average price of imports from the country concerned developed as follows:
Table 3
Import prices (EUR/ tonnes) 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Import price
1 191
1 252
1 169
1 074
Index
100
105
98
90
Source: TRASS data provided in the complaint.
(171) Average import prices from the Republic of Korea decreased by 10% over the period considered from 1 191
EUR/tonne to 1 074 EUR/tonne. Those prices remained significantly below the sampled Union producers’ sales 
prices and cost of production during the period considered, as shown in Table 7.
(172) Price undercutting of the imports was established on the basis of data of the cooperating exporting producer in the 
country concerned and domestic sales data provided by the Union industry for the period of investigation. The 
Commission determined the price undercutting during the investigation period by comparing:
— the weighted average sales prices per product type of the sampled Union producers charged to unrelated 
customers on the Union market, adjusted to an ex-works level; and
— the corresponding weighted average prices per product type of the imports from the cooperating South Korean 
producer to the first independent customer on the Union market, established on a CIF basis, with appropriate 
adjustments for post-importation costs.
(173) The price comparison was made on a type-by-type basis for transactions at the same level of trade, duly adjusted 
where necessary, and after deduction of rebates and discounts. The result of the comparison was expressed as a 
percentage of the sampled Union producers’ theoretical turnover during the investigation period. The weighted 
average undercutting found was 14.7%.
(174) Following final disclosure, LG Chem argued that it had not been provided with its own detailed data in Annex 3b to 
the final disclosure, and that the magnitude of the ranges for confidential data was inadequate. The Commission 
acknowledged LG Chem’s comments. Therefore, LG Chem was provided with its own confidential data, and ranges 
were narrowed. These changes were included in the additional sensitive disclosure provided to LG Chem and to the 
Union industry on 8 February 2022.
(175) LG Chem also claimed that information at PCN-specific level should be disclosed. However, in line with Article 19 of 
the basic Regulation, the Commission could not reveal the requested data per product type. Indeed, in the case at 
hand, there were only two Union producers and three PCNs. Therefore, a disclosure of such level of detail would 
make it possible to, either directly or with addition of market intelligence, reconstruct confidential sales or 
production data of individual Union producers LG Chem reiterated its argument after the additional final disclosure
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/46 
6.4.2022  
(176) The Commission cannot disclose detailed data accumulated from two companies only, as this creates the risk that 
other interested parties may reconstruct confidential data of individual producers with the help of market 
intelligence. This is an objective risk existing in any market where there are only a few known producers active on 
the market or involved in the Commission’s investigation. The Commission therefore rejected this claim.
(177) LG Chem further argued that the figures used for undercutting and underselling have no basis in the record of the 
investigation and that these discrepancies should be explained. In detail, LG Chem found that it could not exactly 
reconcile the CIF EU border export value disclosed in Annex 3b, as well as the detailed undercutting and injury 
calculations disclosed to LG Chem, with the figures reported in LGC’s sales listings in tables EUSALUR and 
RLSALUR. Also LG Chem argued that the CIF EU border export value displayed in Korean won in Annex 2.1 to the 
final disclosure would result in a different value in EUR than the one used in Annex 3b.
(178) The Commission clarified that for the conversion of Korean won into Euro it converted the CIF values of each 
transaction by the respective monthly ECB exchange rate, whereas LG Chem indicated in its comments to have 
applied the annual ECB exchange rate. Due to monthly fluctuations in quantities, LG Chem’s conversion based on 
the annual rate necessarily showed different values. The Commission therefore rejected the claim that the figures 
used for undercutting and underselling purposes show discrepancies compared to the data on file.
(179) LG Chem also claimed that the Commission did not explain how it determined the constructed CIF value, which was 
used for undercutting purposes.
(180) The Commission clarified that the constructed CIF for the sales made via LG Chem Europe was constructed 
deducting from the net invoice value the SG&A and profit established as explained above in recitals (118) to (125), 
and the allowances for all the costs incurred after importation. Moreover, contrary to what LG Chem alleges, Annex 
3a of the final disclosure explains how the CIF price was determined as regards the adjustment for post-importation 
costs. The Commission therefore rejected this claim.
(181) LG Chem further argued that the Commission used a PCN for comparing prices of imports by LG Chem to prices of 
the sampled Union producers which was too simple and did not take into account all characteristics mentioned in 
LG Chem’s submission of 28 April 2021, i.e. raw material, shape, CRC, odour control, foamed, anti-caking, anti- 
discoloration and use. In particular differences in CRC might explain, on its own, the undercutting margin of 14,7%.
(182) The Commission refers to section 2.3.5, which demonstrates that the Commission collected the data in a detailed 
form to be in the position to analyse the cost and price effect of the different characteristics proposed by LG Chem, 
including CRC. However, these data, together with the information collected and verified from users, did not 
confirm the alleged cost and price influence of the characteristics, other than the ones applied by the Commission. 
The Commission therefore rejected the claim that a more detailed PCN should have been used.
(183) LG Chem finally argued that adjusting the actual price charged by LG Chem Europe by a theoretical amount of SGA 
and profit for undercutting purposes constitutes a manifest error of assessment and is inconsistent with Articles 3(2) 
and 3(3) of the basic Regulation, since for an undercutting comparison, prices must be compared at the same level of 
trade following the Jindal judgement (12). The General court in Hansol (13) has confirmed that for undercutting 
purposes it is the prices negotiated between an undertaking and the customers and not prices at an intermediate 
stage which could determine the customer’s acquisition decision.
(184) This claim had to be rejected. Firstly, Article 3(2) of the basic Regulation refers to the effect of dumped imports that 
may cause injury to the Union industry and not to the resale price of a company (related importer) within the Union 
to another customer.
(12) Judgment of 10 April 2019, Jindal Saw and Jindal Saw Italia v Commission, T-301/16, EU:T:234, para. 184.
(13) Judgement of 2 April 2020, Hansol Paper v Commission, T-383/17, EU:T:2020:139, paras. 196-203.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/47  
(185) Secondly, as far as undercutting margins are concerned, the basic Regulation does not provide any specific 
methodology of that concept. The Commission therefore has a margin of discretion in assessing this injury factor. 
That discretion is limited by the need to base conclusions on positive evidence and to make an objective 
examination, as required by Article 3(2) of the basic Regulation.
(186) When it comes to the elements taken into account for calculation of undercutting margins (in particular the export 
price), the Commission has to identify the first point at which competition takes (or may take) place with Union 
industry in the Union market. This point is in fact the purchasing price of the first unrelated importer because that 
company has in principle the choice to source either from the Union industry or from overseas customers. By 
contrast, resale prices of related importers do not reflect the point where real competition takes place. This is only 
the point where the established sales structure of the exporter tries to find customers but it is already after the point 
where the decision to import had been taken. Indeed, once the exporting producer has established its system of 
related companies in the Union, they have already decided that the source of their merchandise will be from 
overseas. Hence, the point of comparison should be right after the goods crosses the Union border, and not at a 
later stage in the distribution chain, e.g. when selling to the final user.
(187) This approach also ensures coherence in cases where an exporting producer is selling the goods directly to an 
unrelated customer (whether importer or final user) because under this scenario, resale prices would not be used by 
definition. A different approach would lead to a discrimination between exporting producers based solely on the 
sales channel that they use.
(188) In this case, the import price cannot be taken at its face value because the exporting producer and the importer are 
related. Therefore, in order to establish a reliable import price at arm’s length, such price has to be reconstructed by 
using the resale price of the related importer as a starting point. In order to carry out this reconstruction, the rules on 
the construction of the export price as contained in Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation are pertinent, just as they are 
pertinent for the determination of the export price for dumping purposes. The application of Article 2(9) of the 
basic Regulation allows for the arrival at a price that is fully comparable to the CIF price (Union border) that is used 
when examining sales made to unrelated customers.
(189) The Commission also noted that this approach had been endorsed by the General Court in Severstal. (14)
(190) Finally, LG Chem did not provide any evidence showing any systematic price difference in sales to distributors and 
direct sales to users for similar product types. The Commission could also not find any evidence of differences in 
price setting between sales to distributors and sales to users on the side of the Union industry.
4.4.3. Claim of no undercutting in 2018 due to price increases
(191) Concerning price depreciation effects in 2018, LG Chem claimed that both prices of South Korean imports and of 
the Union industry increased as compared to 2017 levels. Therefore, no undercutting could have occurred.
(192) However, the analysis of the evolution of import prices on the Union industry prices is established with regard the 
period concerned as a whole, i.e. between 2017 and the investigation period. While price trends are assessed for the 
whole period considered, undercutting calculations are performed only for the investigation period (2020). 
Therefore, the increase of South Korean prices as well as Union industry prices in 2018 compared to their 2017 
levels are not relevant for the calculation of the undercutting during the IP in this case. In addition, that fact alone 
does not suggest the absence of undercutting on the prices of the Union industry from the South Korean imports 
during the period concerned since that conclusion could only be reached on the basis of a detailed comparison 
between the actual export price and EU prices.
(14) Judgment of 22 September 2021, PAO Severstal v Commission, T-753/16, EU:T:2021:612, para. 272.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/48 
6.4.2022  
(193) Indeed, the undercutting margin is defined as the amount by which the actual import price from the country 
concerned is lower than the actual price of the Union industry. The difference between both prices, after necessary 
adjustments have been made, is expressed as a percentage of the Union industry's price.
(194) In 2018, the average price of South Korean imports was still set at a lower level compared to the average prices of 
the Union industry. As a consequence, although both South Korean and Union industry prices increased during that 
period, the statistics suggest that undercutting would also have happened in 2018.
(195) Therefore, this claim was rejected.
(196) Following the Final Disclosure LG Chem claimed that it never argued that no undercutting could have occurred 
in 2018. This interpretation of LG Chem’s claim was alleged to have violated LG Chem’s right to sound 
administration.
(197) The Commission took note of LG Chem’s clarification that it had not sought to make the above claim. Given that LG 
Chem did not point to any argument that the Commission had failed to address, the Commission did not consider 
that the Commission had violated the right to sound administration.
4.5. Economic situation of the Union industry
4.5.1. General remarks
(198) In accordance with Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation, the examination of the impact of the dumped imports on the 
Union industry included an evaluation of all economic indicators having a bearing on the state of the Union industry 
during the period considered.
(199) As mentioned in recital (41), sampling was used for the determination of possible injury suffered by the Union 
industry.
(200) For the injury determination, the Commission distinguished between macroeconomic and microeconomic injury 
indicators. The Commission evaluated the macroeconomic indicators on the basis of data provided by the sampled 
producers and non-sampled producers, crosschecked with the data in the complaint. The Commission evaluated the 
microeconomic indicators on the basis of data contained in the questionnaire replies from the sampled Union 
producers. The data related to the sampled Union producers. Both sets of data were found to be representative of 
the economic situation of the Union industry.
(201) The macroeconomic indicators are: production, production capacity, capacity utilisation, sales volume, market 
share, growth, employment, productivity, magnitude of the dumping margin, and recovery from past dumping. 
Following the Final disclosure, interested parties highlighted some discrepancies in the macro-indicators for 
production and sales between the complaint and the disclosure. After analysis, the Commission accepted these 
claims and corrected the figures. The Commission has thuds updated the macroeconomic figures with the figures of 
one company. For that reason, the absolute values were displayed as ranges in order to ensure confidentiality.
(202) The microeconomic indicators are: average unit prices, unit cost, labour costs, inventories, profitability, cash flow, 
investments, return on investments, and ability to raise capital.
4.5.2. Macroeconomic indicators
4.5.2.1. Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation
(203) The total Union production, production capacity and capacity utilisation developed over the period considered as 
follows:
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/49  
Table 4
Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Production volume 
(tonnes)
[525 000 – 
560 000]
[530 000 – 
565 000]
[540 000 – 
575 000]
[520 000 - 555 000]
Index
100
102
105
98
Production capacity 
(tonnes)
[540 000 – 
580 000]
[600 000 – 
640 000]
[650 000 – 
690 000]
[650 000 – 690 000]
Index
100
109
117
117
Capacity utilisation
[93%-95%]
[88%-90%]
[84%-86%]
[78%-80%]
Index
100
94
90
83
Source: sampled and non-sampled Union producers
(204) The Union industry production volume increased by 5 percentage points between 2017 and 2019, then it went 
down by 7 percentage points between 2019 and the IP. The overall production volume decreased over the period 
considered by 2%.
(205) The production capacity increased steadily during the period considered, passing from [540 000 – 580 000] tonnes 
in 2017 to [650 000 – 690 000]tonnes in 2019 and stayed at that level in the investigation period, for an overall 
increase of 17%. The capacity increase of the EU SAP industry resulted from a major investment made by one 
Union producer during the period considered.
(206) As shown above in Table 4, while the Union production capacity increased significantly during the period 
considered, the Union capacity utilization significantly deteriorated, passing from a capacity utilisation of [93%- 
95%]in 2017 to [78%-80%]in the IP. That trend resulted in a total decrease of 17% of the Union capacity utilisation 
during the period considered.
4.5.2.2. Drop in capacity utilisation caused by increase of capacity
(207) LG Chem commented on the decline in capacity utilisation from the Union industry during the period considered, 
with particular reference to the investment project by one Union producer that increased production capacity 
in 2018. According to LG Chem, the additional capacities were never intended to supply the Union market, as the 
existing capacities in 2017 were already in excess of the demand in the Union market. Therefore, overcapacity of 
the Union producers could not have been caused by the South Korean imports.
(208) The Commission agreed that the drop in capacity utilisation over the period considered, while maintaining a 
relatively stable overall volume produced, was connected to the capacity increase by the Union producers. However, 
contrary to the statements of LG Chem, those additional capacities were not in excess of demand on the Union 
market. In 2017, the total production capacity of the Union industry only amounted to [86%-88%]% of Union 
consumption. After the increases in production capacity, it remained in line with the Union consumption with only 
an overcapacity of [1%-2%]. There is thus no evidence showing that additional capacities were not intended for the 
Union market.
(209) Following the 2nd additional final disclosure LG chem argued that the figures do not support the conclusion that the 
additional capacities of the Union industry built during the period considered were designed to serve the Union 
market.
(210) The Commission has concluded that the increases of capacity only lead to a minimal overcapacity. Since users as well 
LG Chem have pointed out in their arguments regarding the Union interest that not all capacity is automatically 
designed for the production of each type of SAP, the minimal overcapacity of [1%-2%] is no indication that it is not 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/50 
6.4.2022  
destined for the Union market, but rather to create enough capacity for a flexible production of different kinds of 
SAP to keep up with the demand for different kinds of SAP. In addition, even after the capacity increase, actual 
production remained well below Union consumption. The Commission therefore rejected this argument.
4.5.2.3. Capacity of Sumitomo Seika not considered
(211) Moreover, LG Chem claimed that the overcapacity situation of the Union industry declared in the complaint was 
underestimated as it did not take into consideration the production capacity of the Union producer Sumitomo 
Seika. LG Chem asked the Commission to clarify why the capacities and injury indicators of the Union producer 
Sumitomo Seika were disregarded, as they could have influenced and distorted the injury picture depicted in the 
complaint.
(212) The Commission recalled that the company in question did not cooperate in the investigation. However, contrary to 
the assertions of LG Chem, this does not mean that the Commission disregarded the capacities and injury indicators 
of the company. The figure of 47 000 tonnes put forward by LG Chem was also used in the Commission’s macro 
data for the production capacity, and estimations were made for the remaining injury indicators of that company
(213) Therefore, this claim was dismissed.
4.5.2.4. Sales volume and market share
(214) The Union industry’s sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 5
Sales volume and market share 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Total sales volume in the 
Union market (tonnes)
[350 000 – 
380 000]
[370 000 – 
400 000]
[370 000 – 
400 000]
[320 000 – 350 000]
Index
100
104
103
89
Market share
[56%-58%]
[58%-60%]
[57%-59%]
[49%-51%]
Index
100
105
103
88
Source: sampled and non-sampled Union producers
(215) Total sales in the Union market overall decreased over the period considered, recording a 11% fall between 2017 and 
the IP. Between 2017 and 2018 the total volume of sales to the Union increased by 4%, and then steadily dropped 
until the IP. The most significant drop was registered between 2019 and the IP, when the total sales volume on the 
Union market decreased by 14%.
(216) Despite the stable Union consumption as shown in Table 1, the Union industry sales volume decreased steadily 
during the period considered and, thus, the market share consequently dropped by 12% between 2017 and the IP. 
Similarly for the trend of Union sales volume, the most significant drop in market share was registered between 
2019 and the IP with a year-on-year decrease of 15%.
(217) Following the final disclosure LG Chem argued that the Commission cannot analyse the evolution of sales volumes 
on the Union market in isolation from sales on exports markets. Sales have been re-directed from the Union market 
to export markets rather than being “lost”.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/51  
(218) The Commission necessarily must analyse the development on the Union market in order to determine an injury on 
the Union market. The increase in exports has been analysed in the section 5.2.4 to determine, if this was a cause for 
the injury incurred. The Commission therefore rejected the argument that it had analysed the evolution in isolation 
disregarding the exports of the Union industry.
4.5.2.5. Growth
(219) The Union consumption stayed stable during the period considered, while the sales volume of the Union industry in 
the Union market decreased by 12%.. The Union industry thus lost market share, by contrast with the market share 
of the imports from the country concerned which increased significantly during the same period.
4.5.2.6. Employment and productivity
(220) Employment and productivity developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 6
Employment and productivity 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Number of employees
[1 000 – 1 150]
[1 000 – 1 150]
[950 – 1 100]
[950 – 1 100]
Index
100
98
92
91
Productivity  
(tonnes/FTE)
492
510
564
529
Index
100
104
115
108
Source: sampled and non-sampled Union producers
(221) The level of the Union industry employment decreased over the period considered. This resulted in a reduction of 
workforce by 9 %, without taking into consideration any indirect employment.
(222) The productivity trend followed that of the Union production volumes, which increased until 2019, and then 
dropped between 2019 and the IP. Productivity increased by 15% between 2017 and 2019, before decreasing 
following the reduction of the production volume. Overall productivity thus increased by 8%. This is because, while 
the production volumes increased until 2019 and then dropped during the IP, the number of employees steadily and 
significantly decreased during the period considered. From 2019 to the end of the IP, however, production dropped 
faster than employment due to the lower sales, which resulted in a corresponding decrease in productivity (-6% from 
2019 to the IP).
(223) Following the final disclosure LG Chem argued that the employment decreased due to modernization and that this 
does not illustrate injury. Despite the investment by NSE being expected to provide 70 extra jobs, these extra jobs 
have likely been compensated by the technical retrofitting completed by BASF an its Antwerp site in 2017 and its 
intention to pursue a strategy of digitization of its SAP business.
(224) While it cannot be excluded that modernisation may have contributed to the decrease in employment, even absent 
the decreases in employment, other indicators still indicated clear signs of injury. Moreover, in the absence of injury, 
modernization would have been expected to lead to an increase in productivity. This was not the case. The 
Commission therefore rejected this claim.
4.5.2.7. Magnitude of the dumping margin and recovery from past dumping
(225) LG Chem’s dumping margin was significantly above the de minimis level. The impact of the magnitude of the actual 
margins of dumping on the Union industry was substantial, given the volume and prices of imports from the 
country concerned.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/52 
6.4.2022  
(226) This is the first anti-dumping investigation regarding the product concerned. Therefore, no data were available to 
assess the effects of possible past dumping.
4.5.3. Microeconomic indicators
4.5.3.1. Prices and factors affecting prices
(227) The weighted average unit sales prices of the sampled Union producers to unrelated customers in the Union 
developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 7
Sales prices in the Union 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Average unit sales price 
in the Union  
(EUR/tonne)
[1 200 – 1 500]
[1 250 – 1 550]
[1 250 – 1 550]
[1 000 – 1 300]
Index
100
104
103
85
Unit cost of production  
(EUR/tonne)
[1 200 – 1 500]
[1 400 – 1 700]
[1 400 – 1 700]
[1 200 – 1 500]
Index
100
121
118
105
Source: sampled Union producers
(228) Sales prices on the Union market first increased by 4% in 2018. Subsequently, they decreased by 1%, before 
dropping further by 17% in the investigation period. Therefore, the average unit sales price in the Union registered 
an overall decrease of 15% during the period considered.
(229) The unit cost of production of the sampled producers increased by 5% during the period considered. It increased by 
21% between 2017 and 2018. It subsequently dropped by 3% in 2019, and further by 11% in the IP. That trend can 
be explained by a sudden increase of raw materials’ prices in 2018, which subsequently decreased until the IP.
(230) As shown in the Table7, average unit sales prices of the sampled Union producers partially adjusted to the 
fluctuations of the cost of production, but at a much slower pace. Therefore, sales prices remained well below the 
level of the unit cost of production from 2018 to the end of the IP.
(231) Following the Final Disclosure LG Chem argued that the analysis of imports from Korea breached LG Chem’s rights 
of defence, since the ranges provided in Table 7, showing prices between 1 000 and 1 300 EUR/tonne during the 
investigation period (‘IP’), i.e. 2020, were excessive and imports from Korea could equally be above, at comparable 
level or below the prices of sampled Union producers.
(232) The ranges shown in Table 7 do not violate LG Chem’s rights of defence. Since the Commission disclosed in Recital 
(171) that the Korean prices remained significantly below the Union industry prices, it was clear to LG Chem for its 
defence that the Korean prices for 2020 were neither above nor equal or very close to the Union industry prices. The 
actual Union producer’s price is sensitive business information and needed to be protected. However, even a 
narrower range would still necessarily not allow LG Chem to see the actual price difference and argue how high it 
is. A different range would therefore not have improved LG Chem’s ability to comment. In addition, the ranges 
provided in Table7 for the cost of production allowed LG Chem to see that the Korean price was clearly below the 
Union industry’s cost of production. The Commission therefore rejected this claim.
(233) LG Chem further argued that Table 7 includes all products of sampled Union producers, including Bio SAP and 
SAVIVA products, which do not compete with Korean imports.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/53  
(234) Table 7 should include all imports of the product concerned. As the Commission rejected LG Chem’s request to 
exclude BIO SAP and SAVIVA from the product scope (see recital (73)) these products are rightly included in the 
figures. The Commission therefore rejected this claim.
4.5.3.2. Labour costs
(235) The average labour costs of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 8
Average labour costs per employee 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Average labour costs 
per employee (EUR)
[110 000 – 
125 000]
[110 000 – 
125 000]
[110 000 – 
125 000]
[110 000 – 125 000]
Index
100
107
103
102
Source: sampled Union producers
(236) The average labour costs per employee increased by 7% in 2018 and then decreased by 3.5% in 2019 and further by 
1% in the IP, for an overall increase of 2% during the period considered.
4.5.3.3. Inventories
(237) Stock levels of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 9
Inventories 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Closing stocks (tonnes)
[50 000 – 60 000]
[50 000 – 60 000]
[70 000 – 80 000]
[75 000 – 85 000]
Index
100
92
124
142
Closing stocks as a 
percentage of 
production
[20% -25%]
[15% -18%]
[20% -25%]
[20% -25%]
Index
100
87
105
121
Source: sampled Union producers
(238) Closing stock levels decreased by 8% in 2018, before increasing steadily and significantly between 2018 and the end 
of the investigation period. They overall increased by 42% during the period considered.
(239) The totality of Union consumption is represented by free market consumption and thus Union industry sales on the 
Union market suffered direct competition from the imports originating in the Republic of Korea. The constant 
pressure of South Korean imports on the Union market, together with the decline of Union industry’s sales and 
market share, can partially explain the growing trend for closing stocks represented in Table 9.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/54 
6.4.2022  
(240) Closing stocks as a percentage of production of the sampled Union producers decreased by 13% in 2018, before 
increasing above 2017 levels both in 2019 and the IP, with respective growth rates of 5% and 21% in relation to 
2017.
4.5.3.4. Profitability, cash flow, investments, return on investments and ability to raise capital
(241) Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments of the sampled Union producers developed over the 
period considered as follows:
Table 10
Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Profitability of sales in 
the Union to unrelated 
customers (% of sales 
turnover)
[- 2% to - 7%]
[- 10% to - 15%]
[- 5% to - 10%]
[- 15% to - 20%]
Index
(- 100)
(- 469)
(- 324)
(- 756)
Cash flow (EUR)
[- 5 000 to -  
15 000]
[5 000 to 15 000]
[10 000 to 20 000]
[5 000 to 15 000]
Index
(- 100)
126
182
73
Investments (EUR)
[15 000 000 – 
25 000 000]
[300 000 000 – 
400 000 000]
[5 000 000 – 
15 000 000]
[1 000 000 – 
10 000 000]
Index
100
1 749
37
19
Return on investments
[- 1% to - 6%]
[- 5% to - 10%]
[- 5% to - 10%]
[- 10% to - 15%]
Index
(- 100)
(- 630)
(- 508)
(- 1 281)
Source: sampled Union producers
(242) The Commission established the profitability of the sampled Union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of 
the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the Union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales.
(243) The sales of the Union industry to unrelated customers turned from loss making in 2017 to significantly loss making 
both in 2018 and 2019 and even more loss making in the IP. Despite the slight improvement in profitability 
between 2018 and 2019, the sampled Union producers saw their profitability deteriorate significantly during the 
period considered, reaching a drop of more than seven times higher than 2017 levels.
(244) Net cash flow is the ability of the Union producers to self-finance their activities. The trend in net cash flow varied a 
lot during the period considered, mainly due to increased production costs and negative profitability.
(245) The return on investments is the profit in percentage of the net book value of investments. It developed negatively 
during the period considered following a decreasing trend similar to that on profitability. Over the same period, the 
Union industry reduced the level of its investments by 81% overall, with an increase in 2018 due to a major 
investment made by one Union producer, as stated in recital (205). The ability of the Union industry to raise capital 
has nevertheless been affected by the losses incurred over the period considered, as can be seen from the decrease in 
investments.
(246) Following the final disclosure, LG Chem argued that the Commission should have factored in that different trends are 
shown by the two sampled producers in terms of profitability. LG Chem commented that only NSE was loss-making 
in 2017, whereas BASF was still profitable and the profitability of NSE has improved over the period from 2018 to 
the IP.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/55  
(247) The Commission analysed the injury picture of the Union industry as a whole, and not at the level of individual 
producers. To get a balanced picture the Commission used a representative sample of the Union industry. However, 
in addition the Commission also analysed if individual facts like investments distorted the injury picture. Such 
factors were taken out of the injury analysis to the extent that they were not part of the ordinary course of business. 
Finally, not all companies forming part of a sample must incur the same trend for every indicator.. The claim was 
therefore rejected.
4.5.4. Conclusion on injury
(248) All main injury indicators showed a negative trend during the period considered. The production volume of the 
Union industry decreased by around 2% and its sales volume in the Union market decreased by 11%. Considering 
the stable consumption in the Union market, this translated into a decrease of market share on the Union market 
from [56%-58%] in 2017 to [49%-51%] in the IP, which corresponds to a drop of 7% during the period considered.
(249) Imports from the Republic of Korea increased by 33% between 2017 and the investigation period and gained 
considerably in market share, although the Union market consumption remained stable. Imports from the country 
concerned substantially increased their market share from [12%-14%] to [16%-18%]. In addition, South Korean 
import prices dropped by 10% throughout the period considered and were consistently below Union industry 
prices. During the investigation period, the import prices of the cooperating exporting producer undercut Union 
industry prices by 14.7% on average. Moreover, and regardless of any undercutting, the Commission further noted, 
on the basis of the trends contained in tables 2, 3, 5 and 7, that the dumped imports supressed the prices of the 
Union industry. Indeed, the Union industry was unable to raise prices to the same extent as its costs of production.
(250) The average prices of the Union industry dropped by 15% during the period considered and, since 2018, average 
sales prices in the Union market were set well below the correspondent unitary costs of production. The 
profitability of the Union industry went from [-2% -7%] in 2017 to [-15% -20%] during the IP. Moreover, Union 
industry’s closing stocks increased overall by 42% during the period considered and represented 25% of production 
during the investigation period.
(251) Only the production capacity of the Union industry showed a positive trend during the period considered. As shown 
in Table 4, production capacity went from [540 000 – 580 000] tonnes in 2017 to [650 000 – 690 000] tonnes in 
the IP, for an overall increase of 17%. The capacity increase resulted from a major investment made by one Union 
producer in 2018, given the significantly high capacity utilisation rate of 2017 ([93%-95%]). However, the capacity 
utilisation went down by 17% during the period considered, passing from [93%-95%]in 2017 to [78%-80%] in the 
IP.
(252) In summary, although consumption on the Union market remained stable, the Union industry was not able to 
maintain its market share. Imports from the Republic of Korea were substantial throughout the period considered, 
at prices which were lower than the Union industry prices. Since 2018, the Union industry was selling at prices 
which no longer covered its costs and consequently the industry reduced its sales levels and prices.
(253) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the Union industry suffered material injury within the 
meaning of Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation.
(254) Following the final disclosure, LG Chem argued that the conclusion that all injury indicators showed a negative trend 
during the period considered is partial, since there was a stable production, increased capacity, re-direction of part of 
sales to export markets, significant investments, employment was affected by modernisation and profitability simply 
reflects the massive investments made in 2017-2018. Contrary to LG Chem’s allegation, the Commission analysed 
each of the factors and responded to LG Chem’s arguments. The fact that the Commission did not agree with LG 
Chem’s arguments did not render the analysis partial. The Commission therefore rejected the claim.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/56 
6.4.2022  
(255) Following the 2nd ADD, LG Chem argued that all revised indicators showed improved trends as compared to the 
indicators initially disclosed. In particular, the sales and employment figures showed a considerably more limited 
decline throughout the period considered and no longer support the conclusion of injury.
(256) The Commission demonstrated above that for each indicator, disclosed in the 2nd ADD, that the figures support or at 
least do not contradict the Commission’s initial assessment of the existence of injury. The Commission therefore 
rejected the claim that these figures do not support the conclusion of injury.
(257) In its comments after final disclosure, the Coalition for an Open and Competitive SAP market (15) (‘Coalition H’) 
argued that, since the end of the investigation period, the prices for SAP increased. The Coalition H claimed, and 
provided evidence in support, that currently SAP prices are substantially higher than those registered in the 
investigation period due to higher transport costs, and that Korean prices have increased above those of the Union 
producers.
(258) The Commission noted that the Coalition H did not contest the Commission’s analysis on SAP prices during the 
period considered. These claims refer to a period after the period considered and therefore do not contribute to the 
analysis of this period. Furthermore, as the Coalition H itself has stated, the price increase following the IP is caused 
by higher transport prices. These transport prices are linked to the current situation of the Covid19-pandemic. It 
cannot be confirmed that this is a long-term change in the prices and that thereby a further injury in the future 
could be excluded. The Commission therefore did not consider that this could alter its findings with respect to the 
injury found during the investigation period and rejected the claim.
5. CAUSATION
(259) In accordance with Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the dumped imports 
from the country concerned caused material injury to the Union industry. In accordance with Article 3(7) of the 
basic Regulation, the Commission also examined whether other known factors could at the same time have injured 
the Union industry. The Commission ensured that any possible injury caused by factors other than the dumped 
imports from the country concerned was not attributed to the dumped imports. Those factors are: imports from 
third countries, spec-in contracts, the export performance of the Union industry, the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
price formula in raw material supply contracts, the price formula in SAP supply contracts, costs of capacity 
increases and cost for R&D.
5.1. Effects of the dumped imports
(260) The volume of imports from the Republic of Korea increased (as shown in Table 2) by 33% from 2017 to the 
investigation period and, consequently, their market share increased by 33%, i.e. from [12%-14%] to [16%-18%]. 
This was at the detriment of the Union industry. Indeed, over the same period (as shown in Table 5), the Union 
industry sales decreased by 11% and its market share in the Union market decreased by 12%. In particular, the 
market share of the Union industry fell from [56%-58%] in 2017 to [49%-51%] in the IP.
(261) The prices of the dumped imports decreased by 10% over the period considered (as shown in Table 3). In parallel, the 
Union industry prices in the Union market fell by 15% over the same period. The South Korean imports, ever more 
present in the Union market throughout the period considered, were made at prices that continuously lower than 
those of the Union industry.
(15) For the purposes of this investigation, the Commission granted confidential treatment to the identity of the Coalition H members. The 
Commission received evidence that disclosing their identities would have significant adverse consequences upon the Coalition H 
members due to the threat of commercial retaliation.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/57  
(262) The pressure exerted by the dumped imports also caused significant price suppression as evidenced by the fact that 
the Union industry was unable to raise prices at the same rate as costs. Indeed, as shown in Table 7, over the period 
considered, the costs of production increased by 5% whereas the Union industry’s sales prices decreased by 15%. 
During the period considered, that inability to increase prices caused the profitability of the Union industry to 
significantly fall from [-2% - -7%] to [-15% -20%], which is clearly an unsustainable level.
(263) In parallel, imports from the Republic of Korea significantly increased in volume by 33% and their market share 
increased by 33%, while the market share of the Union industry dropped by 12%. Indeed, despite a stable Union 
market consumption between 2017 and the IP, South Korean imports continued to gain market share from the 
Union industry. In the same period, South Korean import prices decreased by 10% (Table 3), while the Union 
industry prices decreased more, by 15%, contrary to the cost of production, that increased by 5%. Therefore, already 
by 2018, the Union industry was suffering from material injury caused by the dumped imports.
(264) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the imports from the Republic of Korea caused material 
injury to the Union industry. Such injury had both volume and price effects.
(265) Following the Final Disclosure LG Chem argued that the allegations of price pressure are not supported by facts, as 
recent specialized press reports state that at least two Union producers have implemented steep price increases for 
SAP.
(266) These reports refer to a period after the period considered and therefore did not contribute to the analysis of this 
period. In addition, such price increases could be connected to multiple short-term factors, including supply 
shortages caused by the international container shortage, as highlighted by the Coalition H. The Commission 
therefore did not consider that this could alter its findings with respect to the injury found during the investigation 
period and rejected this claim.
(267) LG Chem further claimed that most injury indicators started to decline between 2019 and the IP, whereas Korean 
imports only increased from 2017 to 2019, a period in which the Union industry incurred no injury volume-wise. 
A depreciation in sales and market shares took place in the IP, when the Union industry decided to increasingly 
focus on export markets, and when Japanese imports increased.
(268) In this claim LG Chem mixes two claims also made separately. The Commission addresses the claim that the Union 
industry decided to focus on export markets in section 5.2.4 and the claim that the Japanese import increase in the 
IP could have contributed to the injury in section 5.2.3LG Chem further claimed that there is no link between the 
evolution of the market share of Korean exports and the evoluation of the market share of the Union industry, as 
the Union industry lost most market shares in 2020, the year in which imports from Korea were also losing market 
share.
(269) This argument is closely linked to LG Chem’s argument that the Japanese imports and not Korean imports were 
responsible for the loss of market shares in 2020 and was discussed and rejected in recitals (299) to (306).
(270) LG Chem further claimed that the imports from Korea never had any impact on investments, as shown by the 
continuous developments of new products by Union producers.
(271) While Union producers investments indeed increased from 2017 to 2019, they sharply decreased in the IP, due to 
the pricing pressure caused by the Korean imports. LG Chem did not include the IP in its analysis of a continuous 
development of new products. The Commission therefore rejected this claim.
5.2. Effects of other factors
(272) In its comments on initiation LG Chem requested the Commission to analyse whether the decline in sales and 
market shares of the Union industry was caused by imports from Japan, the worldwide allocation of spec-in 
contracts as well as capacity increase investments. LG Chem referred to the complaint, where the complainants 
stated that the Union producers’ sales followed a fluctuating trend similar to that of the consumption until 2019 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/58 
6.4.2022  
and that the Union industry’s market share only declined against the Union consumptions trend during the IP. LG 
Chem argued that the major increase of imports from Japan caused the decline in market share of the Union 
industry, whereas the minor increase of imports from the Republic of Korea were caused by spec-in contracts.
(273) The Commission analysed if and how far those factors contributed to the injury.
5.2.1. Increased demand of spec-in products
(274) LG Chem argued that an increased demand of spec-in products, which were sourced from Korea has caused the 
increase in exports from Korea.
(275) Spec-in products are produced and sold in the Union by both Union and South Korean producers. The Commission 
did not find an increased demand for in-spec products as such. However, it found a shift between suppliers on a 
global basis, with more orders for spec-in products being awarded to the Korean producer over time.
(276) Furthermore, the Commission analysed the development of the contracted volumes supplied by Union producers 
over the period considered and found that although there were shifts in volumes among Union suppliers, the 
overall changes in volume supply over the period considered did not affect the trend of the injury indicators, and 
more particularly the profitability of the Union industry as a whole, over the period considered.
(277) Therefore, the Commission concluded that this factor did not contribute to the observed injury of the Union 
industry.
(278) Following the Final disclosure LG Chem argued that since SAP is not a commodity product, negotiations are not 
based on prices, but on quality. Users require specific SAP grades for specific applications. Contracts are therefore 
simply concluded with the producers that can best satisfy the customers’ requirements.
(279) The Commission noted that SAP producers are normally able to produce a wide range of grades for specific 
applications, and that both Union and Korean producers produce such spec-in products. This is also reflected by the 
fact that many users, especially large users, apply a multi-sourcing strategy. This demonstrates that regularly there is 
not only one SAP producer with a specific grade that best satisfies the customers requirement, but various. Logically, 
users, as profit-oriented companies, will in this case balance the characteristic benefits of a certain SAP offered by 
several suppliers, with the most cost-efficient sourcing. This is different from a situation where users would be 
restricted from choosing the cheapest supplier due to quality or technical issues. The Commission therefore rejected 
the argument that negotiations would not be based on prices, but solely on quality.
5.2.2. Price formula in raw material supply contracts
(280) The Coalition of users argued that the Union industry suffered injury due to the price formula adopted in their 
supply contracts and thus the imposition of anti-dumping measures would not avoid price declines for the Union 
producers. They suggested that SAP prices of the Union industry follow an indexation mechanism towards raw 
material prices and, thus, fluctuate in line with the fluctuation of raw material prices, regardless of the volume of 
imports from the country concerned.
(281) Furthermore, both the Coalition of users and LG Chem claimed that the price formula mechanism adopted in supply 
contracts was sufficient for SAP suppliers to achieve sufficient profitability levels, since upward and downward 
movements in raw material costs were automatically reflected in the final price of SAP products.
(282) Therefore, the alleged profitability losses described in the complaint could not be caused by the decline of sales prices 
of the Union industry following the price cuts of South Korean imports, but rather by the increase in the costs of 
production structures of the Union producers.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/59  
(283) The Commission analysed the effect of the price formula on the profitability. It is a global standard that SAP sales 
contracts are concluded for a year or multiple years. In those contracts the price of SAP for a specific month is 
regularly linked to the price of the main raw materials in the preceding quarter. That delayed influence of the raw 
material price causes a lower or higher profit margin in the month in question. When the raw material price in the 
previous quarter was lower than in a current month, it influences the margin negatively. While over time generally 
positive effects can offset negative effects, the Commission found for the IP an overall negative effect. However, that 
effect was so small that it could only explain a very minor part of the losses incurred by the Union industry. 
Therefore, the Commission concluded that this factor could not contribute to the observed injury of the Union 
industry.
(284) Following the final disclosure, LG Chem argued that there was no price depression or suppression. LG Chem claimed 
that the price formulas for SAP, which reflect the evolution of raw material prices, rather than the Korean imports, 
had explanatory force for the downward trend in prices and therefore had a depressive or suppressive effect on 
domestic prices. The Commission was therefore faced with elements other than imports that may explain the 
significant depression or suppression of domestic prices. Furthermore, prices of Korean imports and prices of the 
Union industry followed the same trends.
(285) The Commission has taken into account the fact that price formulas for SAP reflect the price evolution of raw 
material prices. These formulas ensure that the profits of SAP producers in existing sales contracts made for a 
certain period, are not affected by increasing raw material prices. If the price formulas were the only explanatory 
force for the downward trend in prices, it should have resulted in a more stable profit margin for the European 
producers and only caused a minor price effect, as described in Recital (283), because prices are linked to raw 
material prices of the previous quarter. However, these price formulas cannot alone be responsible for price trends 
in re-negotiations or newly negotiated contracts, compared to existing older contracts.
(286) The Commission therefore analysed the pricing variations that occurred over the period considered in addition to 
the price trends linked to raw material prices. Over the period considered, the Union industry prices decreased 
more than the raw material prices. It is this additional decrease in sales prices that caused the injury, as this 
additional decrease was not profit-neutral. The fact that prices of Korean imports and prices of the Union industry 
followed trends in the same direction, at different rates, does not contradict the fact that on top of the profit-neutral 
trend caused by the raw material prices, there was an overlaying trend. The Commission therefore rejected the 
argument that it disregarded a factor with explanatory force for the price depression.
(287) LG Chem further argued that the decline in domestic prices does not result from a decline in the fixed element in the 
SAP sales contracts, but rather in the variable element reflecting the price changes of the raw materials C3 and 
NaOH. LG Chem argued that the majority of the price decrease of Union industry prices between 2017 and 2020 
was caused by the C3 and NaOH prices, which decreased by 18% in the same period, whereas the fixed price 
element, according to LG Chem’s calculations, only decreased by 12% in the same period. LG Chem also argued that 
the profitability of the Union producers on the Union market correlated with the profitability on the Union 
producers’ export markets, which would be a further indication that external elements affecting the global SAP 
markets, namely the SAP price formula and cost constraints, were responsible.
(288) As mentioned above, the Commission took into account the fact that changes in raw materials influence the sales 
price. However, the price formulas connect the sales price exactly for the purpose of maintaining a stable profit 
level and keeping changes in raw material neutral regarding the profit margin. Therefore, the changes in the fixed 
amount of the price formula with regard to new contracts or renegotiations are the element that affects the 
profitability of the Union industry. If only the changes caused by raw material prices would have occurred, then the 
profitability level over the period considered would have been more stable. This demonstrates that the pricing 
pressure of the Korean imports on the negotiations of the price element of the contract is the causation for the 
decline in profitability and not the changing raw material prices. The fact that pricing pressure also occurs in 
parallel on export markets does not contradict the analysis conducted with respect to the Union market. The 
Commission therefore rejected the claim.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/60 
6.4.2022  
5.2.3. Imports from third countries
(289) The volume of imports from other third countries developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 11
Imports from third countries 
Country
2017
2018
2019
IP
Japan
Volume (tonnes)
[85 000 – 
95 000]
[60 000 – 
70 000]
[45 000 – 
55 000]
[105 000 – 
115 000]
Index
100
72
47
122
Market share
[11% - 15%]
[8% - 11%]
[5% - 8%]
[14% - 18%]
Index
100
73
54
122
Average price  
(EUR/tonne)
[1 200 – 1 500]
[1 200 – 1 500]
[1 200 – 1 500]
[1 000 – 1 300]
Index
100
101
105
87
Turkey
Volume (tonnes)
43 571
46 929
52 626
54 537
Index
100
108
121
125
Market share
[6%-8%]
[6%-8%]
[7%-9%]
[7%-9%]
Index
100
108
121
125
Average price  
(EUR/tonne)
1 140
1 155
1 088
981
Index
100
101
96
86
USA
Volume (tonnes)
40 494
34 952
30 911
30 952
Index
100
87
77
76
Market share
[5%-7%]
[4%-6%]
[4%-6%]
[4%-6%}
Index
100
88
75
75
Average price  
(EUR/tonne)
3 646
3 936
4 522
4 431
Index
100
108
124
122
Other third 
countries
Volume (tonnes)
32 587
29 109
29 046
28 594
Index
100
89
89
88
Market share
[4%-6%]
[3%-5%]
[3%-5%]
[3%-5%]
Index
100
90
89
88
Average price  
(EUR/tonne)
3 407
3 176
3 070
3 149
Index
100
93
90
92
Source: Eurostat, Japanese figures adjusted by confidential market information.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/61  
(290) While imports from Japan have first decreased by 28% between 2017 and 2018 and by 25% between 2018 
and 2019, they substantially increased by 75% in the IP. The imports from Japan were carried out by one of the 
sampled Union producers, Nippon Shokubai Europe, which in addition to its own production resells SAP produced 
by its mother company Nippon Shokubai Japan (‘Nippon Shokubai’). Until 2019, Nippon Shokubai followed a 
strategy of decreasing Japanese imports in favour of its European production, which is reflected in higher 
production volume and investments, resulting in a significant European capacity increase in 2018. However, over 
time, Nippon Shokubai Europe was confronted more and more by customers demanding lower prices due to the 
pressure of low-priced South Korean imports. Therefore, as of the IP, Nippon Shokubai adapted its strategy.
(291) In order to remain competitive with the South Korean imports and not to lose sales volumes in Europe, Nippon 
Shokubai Europe increased its resales of SAP produced in Japan.
(292) While prices of Japanese and South Korean imports overall followed a largely similar trend (like those of the Union 
industry), there is one notable exception: South Korean import prices showed a significant drop in 2019 while 
Japanese prices still increased and Union industry prices remained nearly stable. This was not sustainable and as a 
consequence, both the Japanese and Union industry had to follow and drop their prices significantly in the IP.
(293) The development of market shares is also significant. The Republic of Korea increased its market share by 4 
percentage points over the entire period considered. By contrast, Japanese imports first decreased significantly in 
the years 2018 and 2019 and only increased in the IP as a consequence of the pricing pressure from the South 
Korean imports, which rendered the European production unprofitable. As result, the quantities imported from 
Japan during the IP were higher than those imported at the beginning of the injury investigation period, and the 
market share held by Japan increased by 20% over the whole injury period.
(294) There is no evidence on file to suggest that Japanese imports were dumped. As a consequence, regardless of whether 
or not imports from Japan may have contributed to the injury of other Union producers, the effect of the South 
Korean exports was substantially higher over the period considered due to the lower price and higher volume 
increase throughout that period.
(295) In addition, Nippon Shokubai Europe also continued to suffer losses on the sales of its SAP produced in Europe.
(296) Imports from Turkey increased by 25% over the period considered. Their market share increased from [6%-8%] to 
[7%-9%] in that period. The average price of those imports followed the same trend of those from the Republic of 
Korea, despite being set at a lower level as of 2018 until the IP. During the investigation period, they undercut South 
Korean and the Union industry prices by 3% and 14% respectively. Turkish imports should therefore be considered 
as a contributing factor to the injury suffered by the Union industry.
(297) However, as the volume of such imports represented always less than half of those from the Republic of Korea, it is 
clear that imports from the Republic of Korea were a more important causation factor.
(298) The volume of imports and the market share of the USA both decreased by 24% during the period considered. In 
parallel, their average price increased by 22%. Thus, American imports could not have contributed to the injury 
suffered by the Union industry during this period.
(299) Following the final disclosure, LG Chem requested additional disclosures concerning the methodology used to 
determine import volumes and values from Korea and Japan. The Commission clarified in the additional disclosure 
of 8 February 2022 that Eurostat import data based on CN codes has been relied on for imports from third 
countries. For Japan, Eurostat information for the CN code 3906 90 90 regarding Japan was checked with the 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/62 
6.4.2022  
confidential information in the case file. As explained in recital 195 of the GDD, the imports from Japan were 
carried out by one of the sampled Union producers. Due to the fact that the figures stem from one producer, they 
are confidential. For Korea, the Commission provided adjusted figures as discussed in recitals (159) to (163).
(300) With regard to LG Chem’s comment that the ranges provided for Japanese imports do not allow any proper 
comparison with either Korean imports or prices of the Union industry, the Commission referred to the fact that 
the data is confidential and narrower ranges would not ensure the confidentiality of the data.
(301) LG Chem also claimed that injury was mainly caused by Japanese imports. In support of its claim, LG Chem stated 
that at their peak in 2019, the Korean imports did not prevent the Union industry from increasing the fixed 
element of their price. The fixed element only declined in 2020, when Korean imports declined but the prices of the 
Union industry declined more to follow the decline in prices of imports from Japan.
(302) LG Chem’s argument only points to an isolated comparison of the years 2019 and 2020. This, however, disregards 
the fact that SAP contracts are negotiated regularly for at least a year, but also as multi-year contracts and the price 
negotiations regularly take place in the year preceding the start of the contract. This means that prices for contracts 
starting in in 2020 were negotiated in 2019 and multi-year contracts starting in 2019 were already negotiated 
in 2018.
(303) However, imports from Japan had decreased in 2018 by 28% and in 2019 even by 57% compared to 2017. Also, 
in 2019 the volume imported from Japan even at the upper end of the range displayed in Table 11 does not even 
constitute half of the imports from Korea in the same period. From a comparison of the imports from Japan 
displayed in recital (113) of the complaint for the period from July 2019 to June 2020, [63 000 – 67 000 tons] 
with the imports for the entire year 2020 displayed in Table 11, [105 000 – 115 000 tons], it is further visible that 
the increase in Japanese imports mostly took place only as of the second half of 2020.
(304) It is therefore, highly unlikely that the increase in Japanese imports in 2020 had an effect on the price negotiations 
for the sales in 2020, but rather logical that the additional effect of the 2020 Japanese imports, if any, will only 
materialize from 2021 onwards. Contrary to that, as LG Chem admits, Korean imports increased substantially 
in 2018 and with an increase of 38% reached its peak in 2019, the two years in which most price negotiations for 
2020 took place. The fact that the Japanese imports only substantially increased in the second half of 2020 shows 
that these imports are a reaction to the pricing pressure exercised by the Korean importsas highlighted in recital 
(291) above. The Commission therefore rejected the argument that the increase in imports from Japan taking place 
in 2020 is causal factor of the price depression in 2020 on the Union market.
(305) LG Chem further argued that the prices of the sampled Union producers followed prices of imports from Japan and 
not from Korea.
(306) LG Chem did not demonstrate a correlation of the Union producers’ prices with the Japanese import prices. Between 
2017 and 2018, Union producer prices and prices of imports from Korea increased by a similar percentage, whereas 
Japanese import prices only increased marginally. Between 2018 and 2019 prices of imports from Japan clearly 
increased by 4 percentage points, whereas the Union producers’ prices declined, as did the Korean import prices. 
Only from 2019 to the IP is there a clear correlation, which indicates that both Union producers and Japanese 
imports were under the pricing pressure of the record Korean imports in 2019.
(307) LG Chem also argued that NSE did not adapt its strategy as they maintained stable Union sales in the IP, on top of 
significant imports from Japan. Furthermore, according to LG Chem, suppliers cannot be switched overnight due to 
a lengthy on-boarding process of users. NSE implemented a long-term predatory strategy to supply the Union 
market both from Japanese and Union factories, by increasing capacities in the Union and sales to the detriment of 
other Union producers.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/63  
(308) The Commission noted that imports from Japan, including the imports of NSE, have decreased substantially from 
2017 to 2019 and only increased in the IP. This demonstrates that a strategy adaptation took place, aiming to 
replace resales of Japanese imports by local production in the EU. Only in reaction to the competition from low- 
priced Korean imports, did Japanese imports increase at the end of 2020. Such adaptations can take place more 
quickly between subsidiaries of a multinational group , with shorter adaptation time required on the user’s side. 
This also aligns with the fact that imports from Japan decreased while production capacities in the Union were 
increased. The Commission therefore rejected the claim.
(309) LG Chem further claimed that the Commission likely underestimated the market share of Japan by failing to consider 
other Japanese suppliers, such as Sumitomo Seika.
(310) The Commission has crosschecked the Eurostat data with the available data on file, including the information 
provided from users. The file did not give any indication that imports by other Japanese suppliers were 
underestimated. The Commission therefore rejected the claim.
(311) Finally, LG Chem claimed that insofar as Turkish imports caused injury to the Union industry, the Commission 
ought to have ensured that the injurious effects of Turkish imports are separated and not attributed to Korean 
imports.
(312) The Commission noted in recitals (296) and (297) that the Turkish imports have neither increased substantially over 
the period considered, nor can they compare in absolute figures to the Korean imports. The Commission therefore 
rejected that arguments that it has attributed effects of Turkish imports to the Korean imports.
5.2.4. Export performance of the Union industry
(313) In its comments on initiation LG Chem requested the Commission to analyse if a deliberate focus of the Union 
industry on exports had contributed to the injury.
(314) The volume of exports of the sampled Union producers developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 12
Export performance of the sampled Union producers 
2017
2018
2019
IP
Export volume (tonnes)
[90 000 – 105 000]
[95 000 – 110 000]
[115 000 – 
130 000]
[135 000 – 150 000]
Index
100
102
124
145
Average price  
(EUR/tonne)
[1 000 – 1 300]
[1 200 – 1 500]
[1 200 – 1 500]
[1 000 – 1 300]
Index
100
123
118
98
Source: sampled Union producers
(315) The average price of those exports first increased by 23% in 2018. That level then decreased in 2019, remaining 18% 
higher than the 2017 level, and further in the investigation period to a level that was below the 2017 level (-2%). The 
average price of those exports was lower than that of the Union industry in the Union market throughout the period 
considered, and remained stable. Export volumes were consistently below the volume levels that the Union industry 
achieved in the Union market, even though they increased by 45% overall during the period considered.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/64 
6.4.2022  
(316) The export sales prices developed more closely in line with the raw material price evolution over the period 
considered, thus not showing the same magnitude of price depression over the period considered, as the sales on 
the Union market (shown in Table 5). In addition, given that export sales increased, they did not have any additional 
negative effects on the fixed costs per unit produced. Thus, the Commission concluded that the export performance 
did not contribute significantly to the material injury suffered by the Union industry.
(317) Given the spare production capacity of the Union producers as of 2018, there is also no indication that the Union 
producers had a deliberate strategy to give up market shares in the EU in favour of sales outside the EU. The spare 
capacity would have allowed the Union producers to increase sales outside the EU without losing market share in 
the EU.
(318) The Commission therefore rejected the argument that a deliberate focus of the Union industry on exports has 
contributed to the injury.
(319) Following the final disclosure LG Chem argued that sales on the Union market were not lost for the Union industry, 
but rather re-directed form the Union market to export markets. In addition LG Chem argued that in a 2007 
investigation concerning pentaerythritol, the Commission held that a slight increase in export volumes at sales 
prices lower than the average sales prices on the Union market had a negative effect on the financial situation of the 
Union industry.
(320) The Commission observed that the capacity utilisation of the Union industry during the IP was only [78%-80%]. 
This confirms that the Union industry could have increased the exports sales also without selling less on the Union 
market. Contrary to the pentaerythritol investigation as described in recital (316), the increased export sales thus 
did not contribute significantly to the material injury.
(321) The claim was therefore rejected.
5.2.5. COVID-19 pandemic
(322) LG Chem also argued that the economic downturn of the COVID-19 pandemic should be taken into consideration 
as a factor that could have potentially caused injury to the Union industry in the period between mid-2019 
and 2020. It asked the Commission to investigate to what extent that factor contributed to the injury situation of 
the Union industry.
(323) SAP is mainly used for basic hygienic needs and was thus not negatively affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. While 
in the beginning of 2020, fear in the market led to an increased demand for hygienic products and thereby SAP, it 
equalized over the year. There were also no major production stops caused by the pandemic. No other negative 
effect of COVID-19 pandemic was observed for the SAP manufacturers. The Commission therefore rejected the 
argument that the COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to the injury.
5.2.6. Injury caused by costs of capacity increases
(324) The Coalition of users and LG Chem further argued that the losses in profitability claimed in the complaint by the 
Union industry could be the result of extraordinary expenses, rather than normal commercial considerations. They 
suggested that the investments in new capacities by the Union industry – already described in recital (205) – could 
have played a role in that regard by dragging up the costs of production.
(325) LG Chem added that such extraordinary expenses could also relate to investments in the development of new 
technologies by the Union industry, which – similarly to investments in production capacity – contributed to the 
increase of the costs of production.
(326) The Commission noted that it is a part of the normal course of business that SAP manufacturers invest into new 
production facilities, especially in a situation of close to full capacity utilisation, which was a given in the beginning 
of the period considered. The capacity increases were also not of an unreasonable dimension, especially taking into 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/65  
account production efficiencies connected to a higher capacity. In addition, the Commission requested the sampled 
Union producers to exclude any extraordinary effect from impairments or extraordinary write-off from the injury 
indicators.
(327) The Commission therefore rejected the argument that the cost of capacity increases contributed to the injury.
5.2.7. Significant R&D costs
(328) LG Chem claimed that the Union producers have focused on the developments of new materials, which implied 
significant R&D costs that also necessarily drove up costs to a material extent.
(329) It is a part of the normal course of business that SAP manufacturers invest into the development of new kinds of 
SAP. LG Chem also regularly invests in the development of new kinds of SAP and explicitly stressed the importance 
of such investment in the context of spec-in SAP. The fact that R&D creates costs is therefore a usual part of the 
business. During the verification of the sampled Union producers no unreasonably high R&D costs were found.
(330) The Commission therefore rejected the argument that R&D costs contributed to the injury of the Union Industry.
5.2.8. Global price negotiations
(331) Following the Final Disclosure LG Chem argued that with a small number of global buyers, prices are determined at 
the global level, rather than based on individual trends in the Union market.
(332) First, not all users of SAP operate on a global level as demonstrated by various users, who came forward in the 
procedure and have their entire production in the Union. LG Chem did not detail or substantiate in its argument to 
which share of sales in the Union the principle of global price negotiations applies. Second, even in cases where 
prices are negotiated on a global level, these price negotiations necessarily take into account the price level on the 
Union market. No global player would pay a higher global price, if a cheaper supply on the Union market would be 
possible. At the same time, if a supplier within a global contract agrees to supply the Union at dumped and injurious 
prices, then the global contract is no justification for such dumping. The Commission therefore rejected this claim.
5.3. Conclusion on causation
(333) A comparison of the situation of imports with that of the Union industry at the beginning and the end of the period 
considered clearly shows a substantial increase of imports from the country concerned and the deterioration of the 
situation of the Union industry. More specifically, the situation deteriorated significantly in 2019 and 2020. South 
Korean prices decreased importantly in 2019 while the Union industry (and Japan) maintained their price levels. 
However, this was at the expense of their sales volume as the Republic of Korea considerably expanded its sales. In 
response, the Union industry followed the price trend set by the Republic of Korea and decreased their sales prices 
in 2020 but they continued to lose important sales quantities in the market. The dumped imports from the 
Republic of Korea caused material injury to the Union industry since 2017 because of the massive market 
penetration achieved at the expense of the Union industry. In terms of prices, the increasing market share of 
imports continuously undercut those of the Union industry and created substantial price pressure and prevented 
the market price increases in line with raw material cost increases that were necessary for the Union industry to 
achieve reasonable profit levels.
(334) Other factors, such as sales volume losses and shifts for spec-in SAP or raw material price fluctuations did not 
contribute to the observed injury of the Union industry.
(335) Imports from Japan and Turkey in turn had a limited impact on the industry. Imports from Turkey were at similar 
prices to the South Korean imports but at much lower volumes and thus such imports did not attenuate the causal 
link between the dumped imports and the injury of the Union industry Similarly, Japanese imports did not 
attenuate the causal link between the dumped imports and the injury of the Union industry. Such imports decreased 
during the period considered and only substantially increased in the IP. However, imports from Japan maintained a 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/66 
6.4.2022  
higher price level than the South Korean imports. The South Korean imports at prices much lower than those of the 
Union industry are the main reason why the Union industry lost sales and could not raise its prices in line with its 
cost of production, which led to severe profitability losses.
(336) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the material injury to the Union industry was caused by 
the dumped imports from the country concerned while other factors, considered individually or collectively, did not 
attenuate the causal link between the dumped imports and the material injury.
(337) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that the dumped imports from the country concerned caused 
material injury to the Union industry. The injury is clear in the evolution of production, capacity utilisation, sales 
volume in the Union market, market share, employment, average unit sales price in the Union market, cost of 
production, closing stocks, profitability and return on investments, when seen in light of the evolution of South 
Korean import volumes and prices (both absolute and in comparison with other market players).
6. UNION INTEREST
(338) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether it could clearly conclude 
that it was not in the Union interest to adopt measures in this case, despite the determination of injurious dumping. 
The determination of the Union interest was based on an appreciation of all the various interests involved, including 
those of the Union industry and users. As the product is mostly sold directly to the customer, no unrelated importers 
participated in the procedure.
6.1. Interest of the Union industry
(339) The imposition of measures will improve market conditions for the Union producers that will be able to improve 
their competitive position in the market, and recover lost sales volume and market share. As the price pressure from 
unfair imports would be lifted, the Union industry will be able to increase its sales prices and reach a sustainable 
profitability.
(340) The absence of measures would have significant negative effects for the Union industry, as imports would continue 
to increase and lead to further price depression in the Union. This would have a negative impact on the Union 
industry’s production and sales volume as well as market share. This in turn would negatively affect the Union 
industry’s financial indicators and in particular, the already loss making situation would be further aggravated with 
negative consequences for investments and employment in the Union.
(341) Therefore, the imposition of measures would clearly be in the interest of the Union industry.
6.2. Interest of users
(342) Several users came forward in the investigation, but only two of them provided a reply to the questionnaire. Both 
produced predominantly adult healthcare products. The reply of both users was significantly deficient and only one 
of the companies replied to the Commission’s request to provide additional information within the given deadline 
and the reply was still deficient. As a result, for one of the users, the Commission was not able to assess the impact 
of the anti-dumping duties at all. For the second user, despite the incomplete questionnaire response, the 
Commission was able to estimate the impact of measures. For that company SAP represented [5 - 15%] of its cost 
of production, but only around one third of this SAP originated from South Korean supplies. The company also 
demonstrated that for important key markets, multi-year contracts with the public health sector and insurance 
firms prevent a passing on of additional production costs. The company also provided evidence for various 
countries reducing costs in the health sector, putting pressure on the company to reduce its sales prices. Despite 
those challenges and in particular the cost cuttings in the public health sector that impacted users’ sales, the 
company showed a healthy profit of [10% - 20%]. The Commission therefore concluded that measures of 14.7% on 
[5% - 15%] of its cost of production could be absorbed or at least passed on to consumers.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/67  
(343) Four further users, including Procter & Gamble, FATER and Essity, as well as a Coalition of users, consisting of four 
users, put forward their arguments during hearings and submissions. All users strongly opposed measures.
(344) Procter & Gamble argued that access to all SAP suppliers, including South Korean suppliers, was vital for 
maintaining a multiple supply strategy, to ensure supply stability especially for in-spec SAP, which cannot be 
produced by all SAP producers. The capacity of the Union producers to produce the specific Generation 8 SAP 
required by Procter & Gamble is not enough to provide the volume required. If Procter & Gamble were to be forced 
to use other SAP not fulfilling the Generation 8 specifications, it could trigger important costs for adjusting 
packaging, transport and would have a negative impact on the environment by increasing the amount of waste. In 
addition a change in SAP will require an adaptation process of at least six months.
(345) FATER brought forward similar arguments regarding supply stability and insufficient production capacity for 
Generation 8 and 9 SAP, and a required adaptation period of six to nine months. FATER estimated the negative 
impact of the company in case it was required to use other types of SAP as leading to de-standardisation and 
triggering additional costs of a seven -digit EUR amount.
(346) A third user brought forward similar arguments regarding supply stability, adaptation costs for change of SAP and 
environmental impact.
(347) The Coalition of users as well as another user suggested that, in view of the risk that one of the Union producers 
considering selling its SAP business, the imposition of anti-dumping measures would reinforce a duopoly and 
jeopardize the competition on the Union market.
(348) The cooperating exporting producer also commented on the risk that the anti-dumping measures could undermine 
fair competition on the Union market.
(349) Similar claims were advanced by another SAP user, Essity. It claimed that, without the threat of competition, the 
Union industry would have little incentive to diversify its production and develop new solutions to meet evolving 
customer needs, hence hampering Essity’s drive to diversification and making it dependent on only a few Union 
producers.
(350) The Commission considers that the Coalition of users did not provide sufficient evidence in support of its claims on 
the possibility that the Union market would become a duopoly should the anti-dumping duties be imposed. In 
particular, the coalition did not consider that the dumped imports and the caused decline of profitability of the 
Union industry might not increase the risk of a market exit of one Union producer.
(351) Moreover, the information collected during the investigation showed no evidence of any anti-competitive practices 
carried out by the Union industry. On the contrary, specific evidence that the industry was capable and willing to 
supply any user of the product concerned was collected.
(352) The Commission concluded that the measures will increase the production costs of the users and are not in the 
interest of the users. Taking into account that the intended amount of duties will not have a prohibitive effect as 
SAP only represents [5% - 15%] of the cost of production of adult or baby diapers, the Commission concluded that 
the interest of the users to have access to all worldwide SAP suppliers without duties does not prevail over the 
interest of the Union Industry to be protected against dumped imports.
(353) In their comments after the final disclosure, P&G and Fater disagreed with the statement in recital (351) with regards 
the capability of the Union industry to supply any user of the product concerned. They claimed that the Union 
Industry is unable to supply the requested amounts of SAP Generation 8 & 9, as it is lacking production capacity for 
this specific SAP product.
(354) Similar claims were advanced by Coalition H in their submission following disclosure. It also disagreed with the 
Commission’s conclusion on the capability of the Union industry to supply any user of the product concerned. It 
argued, and provided evidence, that SAP users systematically experienced supply chain disruptions in the Union 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/68 
6.4.2022  
market and were not able to secure the quality and quantity of SAP needed for their production. The Coalition 
concluded that, giving the existing supply chain disruptions, the Union industry would not be able to compensate 
for the loss of competitive SAP imports from outside the EU.
(355) The evidence brought forward by P&G, Fater and the Coalition H to substantiate a supply shortage mostly concern 
the period following the IP, but also the second and third quarter of the IP. The evidence provided for In the IP 
shows that there was a temporary impact of the COVID-lockdown in the period March to June 2020 on one of the 
European suppliers. However, the data also showed that this was a temporary and exceptional situation, as supplies 
resumed rapidly after the lockdown. In addition, the data did not show the same difficulties for the entire EU 
industry. To the contrary, the data seems to indicate that shortage of supply by one Union producer was partly 
alleviated by increased supply from other Union producers (in combination with imports from outside the EU). The 
Commission thus concluded that there was insufficient evidence during the IP to conclude that the EU industry 
would not be able supply users concerned under normal business circumstances.
(356) All the remaining evidence concerned The post IP-period, which was affected by supply disruptions from overseas 
and the global transport shortage caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, thus leading to an increased demand for 
European SAP. However, these were temporary and not structural phenomena which were expected to disappear as 
supply chains were adjusting to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Indeed, as argued by various users, the 
adaptation to a new supplier can often not take place immediately and supply contracts are regularly concluded for 
a period of at least one year. This structure of long-term contracts gives the Union industry some time to adjust, 
especially taking into account their proven ability to make substantial investments. In addition, the supporting 
evidence provided by the Coalition H did not point to any major structural issues affecting the European producers 
ability or willingness to supply under normal market conditions. For example, e-mails relating to Nippon Shokubai 
only highlighted issues concerning supply from its Japanese plant, not from the European plant. All the evidence 
submitted with relation to BASF only concerned an unexpected and temporary issue affecting a single SAP grade. 
Similarly, evidence concerning the other two European producers did not bring to light any structural supply 
problems.
(357) As for P&G, it did not argue that Union producers cannot produce the Generation 8 & 9 SAP, but only that the 
production capacities currently adapted and dedicated to this SAP are not sufficient for P&G’s demand. However, 
the Union industry has demonstrated its willingness to invest during the investigation period, which indicates that 
existing spare capacity can be adapted or extended if necessary. The Commission therefore rejected the claim that, it 
did not take into account the evidence provided by P&G, Fater and Coalition H.
(358) P&G and Fater further claimed that the Commission failed to substantiate which “specific evidence” was collected to 
conclude that the Union industry was capable and willing to supply any user of the product concerned, as stated in 
recital (351) . Similar claims were advanced by the Coalition H in their submission following disclosure.
(359) The Commission clarifies that the specific evidence collected relate to spare capacities, investments to adapt to needs 
of new clients and the acceptance of new clients.
(360) Following the final disclosure, LG Chem argued that the supply situation has changed since 2020, including prices 
and availability of SAP supplies in the Union, supporting the arguments made by P&G and other users. Also, LG 
Chem argues that SAP price are increasing, as prices for propylene and caustic soda are picking up.The Commission 
considered the fact that users have provided evidence that the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting transport 
shortages overseas have caused a temporary shortage in SAP supply and led to increasing prices. The Commission 
however considered that this is only a temporary change (see further recital (355)). Furthermore, the increase of 
SAP prices due to raw material increases is also not likely to improve the profitability of the Union industry long- 
term. The Commission therefore considered that the Union interest of imposing measure to counter the injurious 
dumping that had been established was not affected by the temporary supply shortages.
(361) In its comments after the final disclosure, Coalition H disagreed with the Commission’s methodology. In particular, it 
commented that the conclusions on Union interest are based on limited and inaccurate information which were 
described by the Commission as deficient in recital (342).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/69  
(362) Coalition H further disagreed with the Commission’s conclusion in recital (352), according to which SAP represents 
[5% - 15%] of the cost of production of adult or baby diapers. It claimed, and provided evidence, that the cost of SAP 
accounted for up to [20-30%] of the total cost of production.
(363) It also claimed that the Commission based its conclusion on the data provided by only one user and therefore failed 
to take into account the evidence provided on the difficulties of passing the additional burden of the duties to its 
customers. In particular, it was explained that SAP users would typically not be able to pass the price increases on to 
their own customers for a variety of different reasons, such as long term contracts, fierce competition from non-EU 
competitors and price sensitivity of customers.
(364) In assessing all documents provided by all interested parties the Commission did not base its assessment on limited 
and inaccurate information. To the extent that the interested parties cooperated, the Commission verified the 
provided information. This included the percentage of SAP in the cost of production for baby and adult hygiene 
products. The Commission therefore rejected these claims of Coalition H.
(365) In its comments after the final disclosure, Kimberly-Clark argued that SAP prices in the Union market are largely 
driven by the inflation of manufacturing costs, rather than by the imports from Korea. It claimed that SAP prices 
absorbed the impact of inflation on commodity, distribution, labour and energy costs throughout 2021 and, as a 
result, SAP prices increased. To conclude, Kimberly-Clark argued that the anti-dumping measures would further 
exacerbate the trend of increasing prices for both the downstream users and the final customers of products 
including SAP.
(366) In response, the Commission noted that Kimberly-Clark correctly pointed out that the Union SAP producers were 
absorbing manufacturing cost increases as they were not able to increase their sales prices accordingly. However, 
this only demonstrated the price pressure on the market and the fact that the manufacturers were not in a position 
to pass on increased manufacturing costs to their clients. The Commission therefore rejected the claim.
(367) In its comments after final disclosure, Kimberly-Clark also disagreed with the Commission’s conclusion that the 
duties will not have a prohibitive effect as SAP only represents [5%-15%] of the cost of production of adult or baby 
diapers, as stated in recital (352).It claimed that this method of calculation did not account for the fact that SAP are 
not fungible commodity products.
(368) In its assessment the Commission accounted for the fact that SAP is produced with different properties and that 
users choose a specific kind of SAP that suits their product best. However, the technical differences alone did not 
justify adding additional PCN categories. The Commission had initially collected more detailed data and came to the 
conclusion that only a distinction of the use and according to odour-control additives was justified. The Commission 
therefore rejected the claim.
(369) Coalition H further argued that the Commission failed to correctly assess the concerns submitted by several SAP 
users with regards the imposition of duties, which led to incorrect conclusions on the Union interest. It claimed that 
the Commission missed the opportunity to provide guidance to the users on how to present their submissions in a 
more complete and useful manner and did not make a sufficient effort to collaborate with those users so that the 
information ultimately collected would allow a proper assessment of the Union interest. It further claimed that, 
among Coalition H members, only three SAP users appear to have received a questionnaire from the Commission 
and that the Commission only used the information provided in one of two questionnaire responses, while 
disregarding the arguments put forward in hearings and submissions of at least eight other SAP users.
(370) The Commission sent the notice of initiation with the link to the relevant user questionnaire to all known users and 
all users that came forward were informed of the procedure. All information provided by users was taken into 
account in the assessment. The Commission further approached all users that had provided a response to the user’s 
questionnaire to verify their data. Via deficiency letters, guidance about the necessary data was provided. The 
Commission therefore rejected the argument that it did not sufficiently take into account or provide assistance to 
users in this procedure.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/70 
6.4.2022  
6.3. Other factors
(371) Several users indicated that an increase of production cost for health care products will increase the cost of 
consumers of health care products. In addition a limitation for the access to the Generation 8 and Generation 9 
SAP, might lead to less quality products for consumers.
(372) The Commission considered that the additional production costs that can result from the measures will increase the 
price for health care product consumers. However, the Commission considers that the level of this increase will not 
be so high that the consumer interest in access to reasonably priced healthcare products prevailed over the interest of 
the Union Industry to be protected from dumped imports. Further the measures would not have the effect to prevent 
users from continuing to produce health care products including Generation 8 and Generation 9 SAP.
(373) In its comments following disclosure, Fater claimed that the Commission failed to address its concerns over the 
possibility that the anti-dumping measures could affect the customers’ capability to access healthcare products at a 
reasonable price. It reiterated that its production of medical devices relies on the cooperation with Korean exporters 
and that the measures would entail additional technical work and re-design of its products, which would result in an 
increased price to the final customers.
(374) The Commission has addressed the potential cost increase for health care product consumers in recital (372) and 
balanced it against the interest of the Union industry for protection against dumped imports. The Commission 
therefore rejected Fater’s claim.
6.4. Conclusion on Union interest
(375) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that there were no compelling reasons that it was not in the 
Union interest to impose measures on imports of SAP originating in the Republic of Korea.
7. LEVEL OF MEASURES
(376) Based on the conclusions reached by the Commission on dumping, injury, causation and Union interest, definitive 
measures should be imposed to prevent further injury being caused to the Union industry by the dumped imports.
(377) To determine the level of the measures, the Commission examined whether a duty lower than the margin of 
dumping would be sufficient to remove the injury caused by dumped imports to the Union industry.
7.1. Injury elimination level (injury margin)
(378) The Commission first established the amount of duty necessary to eliminate the injury suffered by the Union 
industry. In this case, the injury would be eliminated if the Union industry was able to cover its costs of production, 
including those costs resulting from multilateral environmental agreements, and protocols thereunder, to which the 
Union is a party, and of ILO Conventions listed in Annex Ia to the basic Regulation, and was able to obtain a 
reasonable profit (‘target profit’) by selling at a target price in the sense of Articles 7(2c) and 7(2d) of the basic 
regulation.
(379) In accordance with Article 7(2c) of the basic Regulation, to establish the target profit, the Commission took into 
account the level of profitability before the increase of imports from the country concerned and the level of 
profitability to be expected under normal conditions of competition. Such profit margin should not be lower than 
6%.
(380) The Commission established a basic profit covering full costs under normal conditions of competition. During the 
entire period considered the Union industry incurred losses. As this was lower than the minimum 6% required by 
Article 7(2c) of the basic Regulation, that profit margin was replaced by 6%.
(381) No claims were made that the Union industry’s level of investments, research and development (R&D) and 
innovation during the period considered would have been higher under normal conditions of competition.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/71  
(382) Likewise, no claims were made concerning the future costs resulting from Multilateral Environmental Agreements, 
and protocols thereunder, to which the Union is a party and that the Union industry will incur during the period of 
the application of the measure pursuant to Article 11(2), in accordance with Article 7(2d) of the basic Regulation.
(383) On that basis, the Commission calculated a non-injurious price of the like product for the Union industry by 
applying the target profit margin of 6% to the cost of production of the sampled Union producers during the 
investigation period and then adding the adjustments under Article 7(2d) of the basic Regulation on a type-by-type 
basis.
(384) The Commission then determined the injury elimination level on the basis of a comparison of the weighted average 
import price of the sampled exporting producers in the country concerned on a type-by-type basis, as established for 
the price undercutting calculations, with the weighted average non-injurious price of the like product sold by the 
sampled Union producers on the free Union market during the investigation period. Any difference resulting from 
that comparison was expressed as a percentage of the weighted average import CIF value.
(385) The injury elimination level for ‘all other companies’ is defined in the same manner as the dumping margin for the 
cooperating company.
Company
Definitive dumping margin
Definitive injury margin
LG Chem Ltd.
13,4%
34,4%
All other companies
18,8%
101,2%
(386) Following the Final Disclosure LG Chem argued that the injury margin determination is affected by the same error as 
the undercutting calculations, and their considerations made for the undercutting apply mutatis mutandis. Also the 
injury margin should be adjusted by the impact of the other factors put forward by LG Chem.
(387) The Commission referred to its arguments in recitals (184) to (188) as well as its rebuttal of LG Chem’s arguments on 
the impact of imports from other countries, the SAP price formula and the investments of the Union industry, set 
forth in the respective sections of the causation analysis. Those claims were thus rejected also with regard to the 
injury margin determination.
(388) In their submission following final disclosure, the complainants and Evonik argued that the target profit of 6% did 
not reflect the profit that would be achieved by the EU producers in the absence of unfair trade practices. In 
particular, they claimed that the Commission did not take into account the information provided by the Union 
industry that allowed it to define such profit at a higher level. Therefore, they asked the Commission to increase the 
profit margin to the average of the target profits that Union sampled producers could reasonably achieve under 
normal conditions of competition, i.e. [14% - 19%].
(389) Furthermore, the complainants and Evonik disagreed with the Commission’s statement in recital (382) and argued 
that claims under Article 7(2d) of the basic Regulation were made in their replies to the Union producers 
questionnaire and to the macro questionnaire. They requested the Commission to take into account the future costs 
in the calculation of the target price and provided a weighted average annual cost increase per tonne of SAP 
produced, stemming from the EU emission allowances. The complainant and Evonik thus requested the 
Commission to increase the target price of the Union producers by EUR [30 – 45] per tonne of SAP.
(390) The Commission could not confirm the target profit proposed by the complainants and Evonik to be reasonably 
achieved in comparison with the data available on the file. The Commission took into account profits achieved 
during the period considered, including adjustments to be made for reaching normal circumstances of competition. 
The profits thus calculated did not amount to the figures claimed by the Union industry, even at the start of the 
period considered, when there was less pressure from Korean imports.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/72 
6.4.2022  
(391) The Commission also disagreed with the statements made concerning the future costs of emission allowances. The 
Commission did indeed take into account the future costs stemming from the EU emissions allowances, according 
to the verified information provided by the sampled companies. This resulted in an increase of the target price of 
[16 - 18 ] EUR per tonne of SAP. These claims were therefore rejected.
8. DEFINITIVE MEASURES
(392) Definitive anti-dumping measures should be imposed on imports of superabsorbent polymers originating in the 
Republic of Korea.
(393) Therefore, the definitive anti-dumping duty rates, expressed on the CIF Union border price, customs duty unpaid, 
should be as follows:
Company
Dumping margin
Injury margin
Definitive anti-dumping 
duty
LG Chem Ltd.
13,4%
34,4%
13,4%
All other companies
18,8%
101,2%
18,8%
(394) The individual company anti-dumping duty rate specified in this Regulation was established on the basis of the 
findings of this investigation. Therefore, it reflected the situation found during this investigation with respect to the 
single cooperating exporting producer. That duty rate is exclusively applicable to imports of the product concerned 
originating in the country concerned and produced by the named legal entity. Imports of product concerned 
produced by any other company not specifically mentioned in the operative part of this Regulation, including 
entities related to those specifically mentioned, should be subject to the duty rate applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
They should not be subject to the individual anti-dumping duty rate.
(395) A company may request the application of its individual anti-dumping duty rate if it changes the name of the entity 
subject to that duty. The request must be addressed to the Commission. The request must contain all the relevant 
information enabling it to demonstrate that the change does not affect the right of the company to benefit from the 
duty rate which applies to it. If the change of name of the company does not affect its right to benefit from the duty 
rate which applies to it, a regulation about the change of name will be published in the Official Journal of the 
European Union.
(396) Should the exports by any company benefiting from a lower individual duty rate increase significantly in volume 
after the imposition of the measures concerned, such an increase in volume could be considered as constituting in 
itself a change in the pattern of trade due to the imposition of measures within the meaning of Article 13(1) of the 
basic Regulation. In such circumstances and provided the conditions are met an anti-circumvention investigation 
may be initiated. That investigation may, inter alia, examine the need for the removal of individual duty rate(s) and 
the consequent imposition of a country-wide duty.
(397) To ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duties, the anti-dumping duty for all other companies should 
apply not only to the non-cooperating exporting producers in this investigation, but also to the producers which 
did not have exports to the Union during the investigation period.
(398) In their submission following final disclosure, the Union industry argued that there is no production of SAP in 
Turkey and therefore any volumes of SAP imported from Turkey can only be of another origin. They requested to 
include a special monitoring clause in the final Regulation to minimise any risks of potential circumvention from 
Turkey.
(399) The Commission clarifies that special monitoring clauses normally only apply to imports of the country concerned. 
However, the Commission took note of the parties’ comments and will, as always, be vigilant to act in line with its 
monitoring practice on measures in force.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/73  
9. FINAL PROVISIONS
(400) In view of Article 109 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council (16)
when an amount is to be reimbursed following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the 
interest to be paid should be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, 
as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union on the first calendar day of each month.
(401) The Committee established by Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 did not deliver an opinion and a simple 
majority of its component members opposed the draft Commission implementing Regulation. The Commission 
then resubmitted the draft Commission implementing Regulation to the Appeal Committee in accordance with 
Article 5(5) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (17).
(402) In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the appeal committee did not deliver an opinion.
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is imposed on imports of superabsorbent polymers (‘SAP’), consisting of irregular, 
round-shaped or agglomerated granules, in powdered form, white in appearance and insoluble in water, resulting from a 
polymerization of monomer molecules with cross-linkers to form cross-linked polymer networks, with a high capacity to 
absorb and retain water and aqueous liquids, originating in the Republic of Korea, currently falling under CN code 
ex 3906 90 90 (TARIC code 3906 90 90 17),
2.
The rates of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price, before duty, of the 
product described in paragraph 1 and produced by the companies listed below shall be as follows:
Company
Definitive anti-dumping duty rate 
(%)
TARIC additional code
LG Chem Ltd.
13,4%
C766
All other companies
18,8%
C999
3.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the company mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be conditional 
upon presentation to the Member States’ customs authorities of a valid commercial invoice, on which shall appear a 
declaration dated and signed by an official of the entity issuing such invoice, identified by his/her name and function, 
drafted as follows: ‘I, the undersigned, certify that the (volume) of (product concerned) sold for export to the European Union covered 
by this invoice was manufactured by (company name and address) (TARIC additional code) in [country concerned]. I declare that the 
information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.’ If no such invoice is presented, the duty applicable to all other 
companies shall apply.
4.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply.
(16) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable 
to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) 
No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision No 541/2014/EU 
and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1).
(17) Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general 
principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission’s exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 
28.2.2011, p. 13).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 107/74 
6.4.2022  
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 5 April 2022.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
6.4.2022 
L 107/75  
