COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2021/607 
of 14 April 2021
imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of citric acid originating in the People’s Republic 
of China as extended to imports of citric acid consigned from Malaysia, whether declared as 
originating in Malaysia or not, following an expiry review pursuant to Article 11(2) of Regulation 
(EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection 
against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1) (‘the basic Regulation’), and in particular 
Article 11(2) thereof,
Whereas:
1. PROCEDURE
1.1. Previous investigations and measures in force
(1)
By Regulation (EC) No 1193/2008 (2) the Council imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of citric acid, originating 
in the People’s Republic of China (‘PRC’, ‘China or the ‘country concerned’) (‘the original measures’). The 
investigation that led to the imposition of the original measures will be referred to as ‘the original investigation’. The 
measures took the form of an ad valorem duty ranging from 6,6 % to 42,7 %.
(2)
By Decision 2008/899/EC (3) the European Commission (‘the Commission’), accepted price undertakings offered by 
six Chinese exporting producers (including a group of exporting producers) together with the China Chamber of 
Commerce of Metals, Minerals & Chemicals Importers & Exporters (‘CCCMC’). The producers were Anhui BBCA 
Biochemical Co., Ltd. (now COFCO Bio-Chemical Energy (Yushu) Co., Ltd.); Laiwu Taihe Biochemistry Co., Ltd.; 
RZBC Co., Ltd. and RZBC (Juxian) Co., Ltd.; TTCA Co., Ltd.; Weifang Ensign Industry Co., Ltd. and Yixing Union 
Biochemical Co., Ltd. (now Jiangsu Guoxin Union Energy Co., Ltd.).
(3)
By Decision 2012/501/EU (4) the Commission withdrew the undertaking offered by one exporting producer, i.e. 
Laiwu Taihe Biochemistry Co. Ltd. (‘Laiwu Taihe’).
(4)
By Regulation (EU) 2015/82 (5) the Commission re-imposed the definitive anti-dumping measures on imports of 
citric acid originating in the PRC following an expiry review, (the ‘previous expiry review’).
(5)
By Regulation (EU) 2016/32 (6), the Commission extended the measures on imports of citric acid originating in 
China to imports of citric acid consigned from Malaysia, whether declared as originating in Malaysia or not.
(6)
By Regulation (EU) 2016/704 (7), the Commission withdrew the undertaking from two more companies based on 
findings of breaches of the undertaking and its impracticability, both of which justified the withdrawal of the 
acceptance of the undertaking.
(7)
By Regulation (EU) 2018/1236 (8), the Commission terminated the investigation concerning the possible 
circumvention on imports of citric acid originating in China by imports of citric acid consigned from Cambodia, 
whether declared as originating in Cambodia or not.
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21.
(2) OJ L 323, 3.12.2008, p. 1.
(3) OJ L 323, 3.12.2008, p. 62.
(4) OJ L 244, 8.9.2012, p. 27.
(5) OJ L 15, 22.1.2015, p. 8.
(6) OJ L 10, 15.1.2016, p. 3.
(7) OJ L 122, 12.5.2016, p. 19.
(8) OJ L 231, 14.9.2018, p. 20.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/73  
(8)
The anti-dumping duties currently in force range from 15,3 % to 42,7 % on imports from the cooperating exporting 
producers and a duty rate of 42,7 % applies to imports from all other companies.
1.2. Request for an expiry review
(9)
Following the publication of a notice of impending expiry (9), the Commission received a request for a review 
pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation.
(10)
The request for review was lodged on 21 October 2019 by N.V. Citrique Belge S.A. and Jungbunzlauer Austria AG 
(‘the applicants’) on behalf of Union producers representing 100 % of the total Union production of citric acid. The 
request for review was based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would likely result in continuation of 
dumping and recurrence of injury to the Union industry.
1.3. Initiation of an expiry review
(11)
Having determined that sufficient evidence existed for the initiation of an expiry review, and after consulting the 
Committee established by Article 15(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission initiated an expiry review 
regarding imports of citric acid originating in China pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation. On 
20 January 2020, the Commission published a Notice of Initiation in the Official Journal of the European Union (10)
(‘the Notice of Initiation’).
1.4. Review investigation period and period considered
(12)
The investigation of continuation or recurrence of dumping covered the period from 1 January 2019 to 
31 December 2019 (‘review investigation period’ or ‘RIP’). The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of 
the likelihood of a continuation or recurrence of injury covered the period from 1 January 2016 to the end of the 
review investigation period (‘the period considered’).
1.5. Interested parties
(13)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission invited interested parties to contact it in order to participate in the 
investigation. In addition, the Commission specifically informed the applicants, the known exporting producers, the 
Chinese authorities, known importers and users about the initiation of the review and invited them to participate.
(14)
Interested parties also had an opportunity to comment on the initiation of the expiry review and to request a hearing 
with the Commission and/or the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings.
1.6. Sampling
(15)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that it might sample the interested parties in accordance with 
Article 17 of the basic Regulation.
1.6.1. No sampling of Union producers
(16)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission stated that the two known Union producers, N.V. Citrique Belge S.A. and 
Jungbunzlauer Austria AG, had to submit the completed questionnaire within 37 days of the date of publication of 
the Notice of Initiation. The Commission also invited other Union producers and representative associations, if any, 
to make themselves known and request a questionnaire. No other Union producer or representative association 
came forward.
(9) OJ C 165, 14.5.2019, p. 3.
(10) Notice of initiation of an expiry review of the anti-dumping measures applicable to imports of citric acid originating in the People’s 
Republic of China (OJ C 18, 20.1.2020, p. 3).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/74                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
1.6.2. Sampling of importers
(17)
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked unrelated importers 
to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation.
(18)
One unrelated importer provided the requested information and agreed to be included in the sample. In view of the 
low number of replies, the Commission decided that sampling was not necessary.
1.6.3. Sampling of exporting producers in China
(19)
To decide whether sampling was necessary and, if so, to select a sample, the Commission asked all exporting 
producers in China to provide the information specified in the Notice of Initiation. In addition, it asked the mission 
of the People’s Republic of China to the European Union to identify and/or contact other exporting producers, if 
any, that could be interested in participating in the investigation.
(20)
Four exporting producers in the country concerned provided the requested information and agreed to be included in 
the sample. In view of the low number of replies, the Commission decided that sampling was not necessary.
(21)
Overall, the cooperation of Chinese exporting producers was insufficient. In fact, Laiwu Taihe, the biggest exporting 
producer accounting for over 53 % of exports from China to the Union, did not cooperate in the present expiry 
review. The Commission instead used the data of the four cooperating exporting producers.
1.7. Replies to the questionnaire
(22)
At the initiation, the Commission made the questionnaires for the Union producers, importers, users, and exporting 
producers in China available in the file for inspection by interested parties and on DG Trade’s website (11). In 
addition, the Commission sent a questionnaire concerning the existence of significant distortions within the 
meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation in China to the Government of the People’s Republic of China 
(‘GOC’).
(23)
The Commission received questionnaire replies from the applicants, one importer, four users, and four exporting 
producers. The GOC did not reply to the questionnaire concerning the existence of significant distortions in China.
1.8. Verification
(24)
Due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent measures taken to deal with the outbreak as 
detailed in a notice published to the case file (‘the COVID-19 Notice’ (12)), the Commission could not carry out 
verification visits pursuant to Article 16 of the basic Regulation at the premises of the entities which submitted the 
questionnaire replies.
(25)
Instead the Commission remotely cross-checked all the information deemed necessary for its determinations. The 
Commission carried out remote cross-checks of the following companies/parties:
Union producers:
— S.A. Citrique Belge N.V., Tienen, Belgium,
— Jungbunzlauer Austria AG, Vienna, Austria and Jungbunzlauer Ladenburg GmbH, Ladenburg, Germany;
Users:
— Reckitt Benckiser (ENA) BV, Schiphol, the Netherlands,
— Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Düsseldorf, Germany;
(11) Link to the case-specific website:https://trade.ec.europa.eu/tdi/case_details.cfm?id=2432
(12) Notice available on the case file under number t20.002450.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/75  
Exporting producers in China:
— COFCO Bio-Chemical Energy (Yushu) Co. Ltd., Changchun, Jilin Province, People’s Republic of China,
— Jiangsu Guoxin Union Energy Co., Ltd., Yixing, Jiangsu Province, People’s Republic of China,
— RZBC Group, Rizhao, Shandong Province, People’s Republic of China,
— Weifang Ensign Industry Co., Ltd., Weifang, Shandong Province, People’s Republic of China.
1.9. Procedure for the determination of the normal value under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation
(26)
In view of the sufficient evidence available at the initiation of the investigation pointing to the existence of significant 
distortions in China within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission 
considered it appropriate to initiate the investigation having regard to Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation.
(27)
Consequently, in order to collect the necessary data for the eventual application of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation, in the Notice of Initiation the Commission invited all exporting producers in China to provide the 
information requested in Annex III to the Notice of the Initiation regarding the inputs used for producing citric acid. 
Four Chinese exporting producers submitted the relevant information.
(28)
In order to obtain information it deemed necessary for its investigation with regard to the alleged significant 
distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission also sent a 
questionnaire to the GOC. The GOC, however, did not reply to that questionnaire. Subsequently, the Commission 
informed the GOC that it would use facts available within the meaning of Article 18 of the basic Regulation for the 
determination of the existence of the significant distortions in China.
(29)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission also invited all interested parties to make their views known, submit 
information and provide supporting evidence regarding the appropriateness of the application of Article 2(6a) of 
the basic Regulation within 37 days of the date of publication of the Notice of Initiation in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. In reaction to the Notice of Initiation, CCCMC made comments on the existence of significant 
distortions. These comments were analysed in detail below under point 3.2.
(30)
In the Notice of Initiation, the Commission also specified that, in view of the evidence available, it might need to 
select an appropriate representative country pursuant to Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic Regulation for the 
purpose of determining the normal value based on undistorted prices or benchmarks.
(31)
On 5 March 2020, the Commission published a first note to the file on the sources for the determination of the 
normal value (‘the Note of 5 March 2020’) seeking the views of the interested parties on the relevant sources that 
the Commission might use for the determination of the normal value, in accordance with Article 2(6a)(e) second 
paragraph of the basic Regulation (13). In that note, the Commission provided a list of all factors of production such 
as materials, energy and labour used in the production of the product under review by the exporting producers. In 
addition, based on the criteria guiding the choice of undistorted prices or benchmarks, the Commission identified at 
that stage Brazil, Colombia and Thailand as possible representative countries. On 13 March 2020, upon the request 
of CCCMC, the Commission disclosed Annex IV to the Note of 5 March 2020, containing the publicly available 
Global Trade Atlas (‘GTA’) (14) data that the Commission services proposed to use for the input materials and 
by-products listed in the Note of 5 March 2020.
(32)
The Commission gave all interested parties the opportunity to comment. The Commission received comments from 
four Chinese exporting producers, from CCCMC and the applicants. The GOC did not provide any comments.
(13) Notice available on the case file under number t20.002149.
(14) Trade information database provided by IHS Markit,https://ihsmarkit.com/products.html
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/76                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
(33)
The Commission addressed the comments received on the Note of 5 March in the Second Note on the Sources for 
the Determination of the Normal Value of 30 November 2020 (‘the Note of 30 November 2020’) (15). The 
Commission also established a provisional list of factors of production and concluded that, at that stage, it intended 
to use Colombia as the representative country under Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic Regulation. The 
Commission invited interested parties to comment and it received comments from the applicants and CCCMC. 
These comments were analysed in detail below under points 3.3. and 3.4.
2. PRODUCT UNDER REVIEW AND LIKE PRODUCT
2.1. Product under review
(34)
The product subject to this review is the same as in the original investigation and previous expiry review, namely 
citric acid and trisodium citrate dihydrate, currently falling under CN codes 2918 14 00 and ex 2918 15 00 (TARIC 
code 2918 15 00 11 and 2918 15 00 19) (‘the product under review’).
(35)
Citric acid is used as an acidulant and pH regulator in a wide range of applications, for example home care 
detergents, beverages, food, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals. Its main raw materials are sugar/molasses, tapioca, corn 
or glucose (obtained from cereals) and different agents for the submerged microbial fermentation of carbohydrates.
2.2. Like product
(36)
As established in the original investigation as well as in the previous expiry review, this expiry review investigation 
confirmed that the following products have the same basic physical, chemical and technical characteristics as well as 
the same basic uses:
— the product under review originating in the country concerned,
— the product produced and sold on the domestic market of the country concerned, and
— the product produced and sold in the Union by the Union industry.
(37)
Those products were therefore considered to be like products within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the basic 
Regulation.
2.3. Claims regarding product scope
(38)
The Commission did not receive claims regarding the product scope. CCCMC noted in its comments on initiation 
that the product under review as defined in the Notice of Initiation covers the product types subject to the original 
measures as well as the types covered by the first expiry review.
3. DUMPING
3.1. Preliminary remarks
(39)
In accordance with Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the expiry of the 
measures in force would be likely to lead to a continuation or recurrence of dumping from China.
(40)
The total declared production capacity of the cooperating exporting producers amounted roughly to 72 % of the 
total estimated Chinese production capacity. Given the low level of cooperation, the Commission applied Article 18 
and based its findings on the Chinese market of citric acid including production, capacity and spare capacity, on facts 
available.
(41)
The findings in relation to the likelihood of continuation of dumping set out below were based in particular on the 
information contained in the request for review, the statistics based on the data reported to the Commission by the 
Member States in accordance with Article 14(6) of the basic Regulation (‘Article 14(6) database’), as well as the 
sampling replies provided at the time of initiation and the questionnaire replies. In addition, the Commission used 
other sources of publicly available information such as the GTA and the Orbis Bureau van Dijk (16) (‘Orbis’) 
databases.
(15) Notice available on the case file under number t20.007937.
(16) Company financial database provided by Bureau van Dijk,www.bvdinfo.com
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/77  
3.2. Normal value
(42)
According to Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation, ‘the normal value shall normally be based on the prices paid or 
payable, in the ordinary course of trade, by independent customers in the exporting country’.
(43)
However, Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation stipulates that in case it is determined that it is not appropriate to 
use domestic prices and costs in the exporting country due to the existence in that country of significant distortions 
within the meaning of point (b), the normal value shall be constructed exclusively on the basis of costs of production 
and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks, and shall include an undistorted and reasonable amount of 
administrative, selling and general costs and for profits.
(44)
As further explained below, the Commission concluded in the present investigation that, based on the evidence 
available and in view of the lack of cooperation of the GOC, the application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation 
was appropriate.
3.2.1. Existence of significant distortions
3.2.1.1. Introduction
(45)
Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation defines ‘significant distortions are those distortions which occur when 
reported prices or costs, including the costs of raw materials and energy, are not the result of free market forces as 
they are affected by substantial government intervention. In assessing the existence of significant distortions regard 
shall be had, inter alia, to the potential impact of one or more of the following elements:
— ‘the market in question being served to a significant extent by enterprises which operate under the ownership, 
control or policy supervision or guidance of the authorities of the exporting country,
— state presence in firms allowing the state to interfere with respect to prices or costs,
— public policies or measures discriminating in favour of domestic suppliers or otherwise influencing free market 
forces,
— the lack, discriminatory application or inadequate enforcement of bankruptcy, corporate or property laws,
— wage costs being distorted,
— access to finance granted by institutions which implement public policy objectives or otherwise not acting 
independently of the state’.
(46)
According to Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, the assessment of the existence of significant distortions within 
the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) shall take into account, amongst others, the non-exhaustive list of elements in the 
former provision. Pursuant to Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, in assessing the existence of significant 
distortions, regard shall be had to the potential impact of one or more of these elements on prices and costs in the 
exporting country of the product under review. Indeed, as that list is non-cumulative, not all the elements need to 
be given regard to for a finding of significant distortions. Moreover, the same factual circumstances may be used to 
demonstrate the existence of one or more of the elements of the list. However, any conclusion on significant 
distortions within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(a) must be made on the basis of all the evidence at hand. The overall 
assessment on the existence of distortions may also take into account the general context and situation in the 
exporting country, in particular where the fundamental elements of the exporting country’s economic and 
administrative set-up provides the government with substantial powers to intervene in the economy in such a way 
that prices and costs are not the result of the free development of market forces.
(47)
Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic Regulation provides that ‘[w]here the Commission has well-founded indications of the 
possible existence of significant distortions as referred to in point (b) in a certain country or a certain sector in that 
country, and where appropriate for the effective application of this Regulation, the Commission shall produce, 
make public and regularly update a report describing the market circumstances referred to in point (b) in that 
country or sector’.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/78                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
(48)
Pursuant to this provision, the Commission has issued a country report concerning China (hereinafter ‘the Report’ or 
‘the China report’) (17), showing the existence of substantial government intervention at many levels of the economy, 
including specific distortions in many key factors of production (such as land, energy, capital, raw materials and 
labour) as well as in specific sectors (such as steel and chemicals). Interested parties were invited to rebut, comment 
or supplement the evidence contained in the investigation file at the time of initiation. The Report was placed in the 
investigation file at the initiation stage.
(49)
The review request submitted by the applicant, on top of reiterating the findings made in the Report, particularly in 
the chemical sector, contained additional information on the previous US anti-dumping proceedings concerning 
citric acid and in particular the findings in the most recent proceeding, as published in the Issues and Decision 
Memorandum for the Final Results of Countervailing Duty Administrative Review: Citric Acid and Certain Citrate 
Salts, 7 December 2015. In particular, the applicant referred to the findings concerning: policy lending (loans made 
available to the citric acid industry by state-owned banks with interest rates below he commercial rates); reduced 
income taxes (citric acid industry benefitting from reduced income taxes and claiming tax credits on the purchase of 
domestic equipment); cheaper access to auxiliary raw materials, especially chemicals, including sulphuric acid, 
caustic soda, steam coal, calcium carbonate or lime; land (findings on land use rights obtained for less than adequate 
remuneration); electricity (finding of the US Department of Commerce that the investigated company was provided 
with electricity for less than adequate remuneration) as well as subsidies in the form of direct transfer of funds and an 
environmental tax offset.
(50)
As indicated in recitals (23) and (28) respectively, the GOC did not comment or provide evidence supporting or 
rebutting the existing evidence on the case file, including the Report and the additional evidence provided by the 
applicant, on the existence of significant distortions and/or on the appropriateness of the application of Article 
2(6a) of the basic Regulation in the case at hand.
(51)
Comments in this regard were received in response to the initiation of the case from CCCMC on behalf CCCMC 
cooperating member producers.
(52)
First, CCCMC argued that Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is inconsistent with WTO law. First, CCCMC claimed 
that the WTO Anti-Dumping Agreement (‘ADA’) does not recognise the concept of significant distortions in 
Article 2.2 ADA, which only allows the construction of the normal value if there are no sales in the ordinary course 
of trade. CCCMC observed that this Article does not mention significant distortions allowing for the construction of 
normal value. Second, CCCMC claimed that even if the concept of significant distortions were in accordance with 
WTO law, the constructed value would need to be calculated in accordance with Article 2.2.1.1 ADA and its 
interpretation by the WTO Appellate Body in EU – Biodiesel (DS478). Third, CCCMC submitted that even though 
the concept of ‘ordinary course of trade’ is not explicitly defined in the ADA, Article 2.2.1 provides that sales of a 
product can be treated as not being in the ordinary course of trade and disregarded ‘only if […] such sales are made 
within an extended period of time in substantial quantities and are at prices which do not provide for the recovery of 
all costs […]’. Fourth, the ADA requires that the normal value must be determined based on the sales prices or costs 
that reflect the price or cost level in the country of origin. Therefore, the constructed price based on the 
representative country cannot reflect the price and cost level in the exporting country. According to CCCMC, there 
is no provision in the WTO law allowing for the use of data from a third country.
(53)
The Commission considered that the provision of Article 2(6a) is fully consistent with the European Union’s WTO 
obligations and the jurisprudence cited by CCCMC. It is the Commission’s view that, in accordance with the opinion 
of the WTO Panel and the Appellate Body in EU – Biodiesel (DS473), the provisions of the basic Regulation that 
apply generally with respect to all WTO Members, in particular Article 2(5), second subparagraph, permit the use 
of data from a third country, duly adjusted when such adjustment is necessary and substantiated. The existence of 
significant distortions renders costs and prices in the exporting country inappropriate for the construction of 
(17) Commission Staff Working Document on Significant Distortions in the Economy of the People’s Republic of China for the purposes 
of Trade Defence Investigations, 20 December 2017, SWD(2017) 483 final/2 (hereafter ‘Report’).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/79  
normal value. In these circumstances, this provision envisages the construction of costs of production and sale on 
the basis of undistorted prices or benchmarks, including those in an appropriate representative country with a 
similar level of development as the exporting country. Therefore, the Commission rejected this claim.
(54)
Second, CCCMC submitted that in the case at hand there is no proof of significant distortions. First, CCCMC 
submitted that the applicants did not provide sufficient evidence of the existence of significant distortions 
warranting an initiation in accordance with Article 5(3) of the basic Regulation, in particular because the evidence 
was very general and not specific to the citric acid industry. Second, the Report was published in December 2017, 
while the RIP in this investigation covered 2019. Therefore, the evidence collected in the Report was outdated and 
did not reflect the situation of the citric acid industry in the case at hand. Third, in US – Countervailing Measures 
(China) (Article 21.5) (DS437), the Appellate Body found that ‘the existence of price distortion resulting from 
government intervention has to be established and adequately explained’ and that ‘the determination […] must be 
made on a case-by-case basis’. Therefore, CCCMC submitted that the Report was an inadequate source to use as 
evidence in the citric acid industry, as it describes distortions in the broader chemical industry sector. Fourth, 
CCCMC argued that the US anti-dumping proceedings mentioned by the applicants are irrelevant in this case, as 
they concern findings made before the RIP.
(55)
In response, the Commission recalled that point 4.1 of the Notice of Initiation referred to a number of elements in 
the Chinese citric acid market, to substantiate that the market was affected by the distortions in the Chinese raw 
materials, petrochemical and chemical sectors. The Commission considered that the evidence listed in the Notice of 
Initiation was sufficient to warrant initiation of an investigation on the basis of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
Furthermore, while the findings in the dumping investigations conducted by the authorities of other countries do 
not automatically constitute evidence of distortions in EU anti-dumping investigations, they may contain relevant 
probative elements to illustrate that there are certain abnormalities in the relevant market of the exporting country, 
as was the case in this instance with regard to the Chinese citric acid industry.
(56)
Regarding the argument that the Report was outdated, the Commission recalled that so far no evidence was provided 
showing that the report is outdated. On the contrary, the Commission noted in particular that the main policy 
documents and evidence contained in the report, including the relevant five-year plans and legislation applicable to 
the product under review were still relevant during the RIP, and that neither CCCMC nor other parties have proven 
that this was no longer the case.
(57)
The Commission further recalled that US – Countervailing Measures (China) (DS437) did not concern the application 
of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, which is the relevant legal basis for the determination of normal value in 
this investigation. That dispute concerned a different factual situation, and concerned the interpretation of the WTO 
Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, not the ADA. In any event, as explained in recitals (49) 
and (55) above, the evidence put forward clearly related to the Chinese citric acid market and thus to the product 
under investigation in the case at hand. Therefore, this claim was rejected.
(58)
Regarding the last argument of CCCMC that the findings in the US anti-dumping proceedings were irrelevant in this 
case, the Commission observes that the evidence listed in the Notice of Initiation by the applicant included also other 
findings apart from the results of US investigations, particularly a number of evidence based on the Report. This 
evidence was deemed sufficient to warrant initiation of an investigation on the basis of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation. Whereas the US investigation took place before the RIP, the comments provided by the applicants on 
initiation served as additional supporting indication of irregularities on the Chinese market.
(59)
Furthermore, CCCMC submitted comments on the First Note on the Sources for Determination of Normal Value. In 
this submission, CCCMC first reiterated its comments made on initiation. Second, it asserted that according to 
Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, only those costs of production and sales which were proven to be distorted 
should be replaced by undistorted prices or benchmarks. Specifically, CCCMC commented that the applicants failed 
to prove that the labour costs in China were distorted, hence the Commission should have used the effective labour 
costs as reported by the exporting producers. CCCMC stated that it was unreasonable to replace the labour costs 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/80                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
with those in a third country, because they were influenced by several factors, such as the supply and demand 
relationship in the market concerned, the degree of automation in the production and the commodity price level in 
the region where the producers were located. CCCMC added that the labour costs varied not only between different 
countries but also between different Chinese producers. Moreover, CCCMC commented that the energy costs varied 
according to several factors, including the type of energy and its availability in the area, the technology of energy 
generation, the relationship between supply and demand, etc. Therefore, the prices of energy in one country cannot 
reflect the price level of energy under normal market condition in another country.
(60)
The Commission noted that once it is determined that due to the existence of significant distortions for the 
exporting country in accordance with Article 2(6a)(b), it is not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs in the 
exporting country, the Commission may construct normal using undistorted prices or benchmarks in an 
appropriate representative country for each exporting producer according to Article 2(6a)(a). Article 2(6a)(a) allows 
the use of domestic costs only if they are positively established not to be distorted. However, individual labour and 
energy costs and/or other input costs of production and sale of the product under review could not be established 
to be undistorted in light of the evidence available. As evidenced in Sections 3.2.1.1 to 3.2.1.9, the Commission has 
established the existence of significant distortions in the citric acid industry, and there was no positive evidence of 
the factors of production of individual exporting producers being undistorted.
(61)
In any event, the calculation of the labour and energy costs were based on the respective amount of labour and 
energy used in the manufacturing process as declared by the exporting producers. Hence, the amount of labour and 
energy corresponded to the real use of these factors by Chinese producers, whereas only the cost of labour and 
energy were replaced by the undistorted value from the representative country. While it may be true that the labour 
and energy costs can vary to some degree between different geographical areas, the Commission uses only costs 
which are not subject to distortions in an appropriate representative country in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a). 
The Commission published two notes to the file on the factors of production allowing the parties ample 
opportunities to comment, including by pointing to any possible abnormalities or other considerations potentially 
affecting them in the representative country or countries. In this context, interested parties have not questioned the 
level of labour and/or energy costs in the appropriate representative country set out in the Note of 30 November 
2020. Therefore these claims were dismissed.
(62)
Third, CCCMC commented that according to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, the assessment concerning the 
existence of significant distortions should be done for each exporting producer separately. Therefore, the 
Commission had the obligation to analyse the situation of each sampled Chinese producer and decide whether any 
of the factors of costs of production and sales are distorted for each of them.
(63)
The Commission noted that the existence of significant distortions giving rise to the application of Article 2(6a) of 
the basic Regulation is established on a country-wide level, thus applying to all exporting producers in that country, 
as is the case here. In any event, as mentioned at recital (60), the same provision of the basic Regulation provides that 
domestic costs can be used if they are established not to be affected by significant distortions, in which cases they are 
used for the calculation of normal value. Therefore this claim was dismissed.
(64)
In separate submissions, exporting producers Weifang Ensign Industry, RZBC and Jiangsu Guoxin Union Energy 
reiterated the claims made by CCCMC on the first note. Furthermore, in a submission by COFCO Bio-Chemical 
Energy (Yushu), this exporting producer commented that application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation goes 
against the provision of Article 2.2 of the ADA.
(65)
The Commission noted that the issue of the compatibility of Article 2(6a) with WTO law was already explained in 
recital (53) above.
(66)
After disclosure, a set of comments on the existence of significant distortions was submitted by CCCMC and by 
Weifang Ensign Industry, RZBC and Jiangsu Guoxin Union Energy (‘the three exporting producers’).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/81  
(67)
First, CCCMC and the three exporting producers reiterated the claim that Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is 
incompatible with Articles 2.2.1.1 and 2.2 ADA and with the findings made in the following WTO cases: EU – 
Biodiesel (Argentina) (Panel and AB findings), EU-Biodiesel (Indonesia) (Panel findings), Ukraine – Ammonium 
Nitrate (Panel and AB findings), Australia – Copy Paper (Panel findings) and EU – Cost Adjustment Methodologies 
(Panel findings). These parties specifically refer to the findings in the latter Panel report, namely that the alleged 
Russian government intervention/market distortion did not constitute an adequate basis to conclude that the 
records of the exporting producers did not reasonably reflect the costs associated with the production and sale of 
the product concerned.
(68)
The Commission recalled that none of the above quoted WTO cases concerned the application of Article 2(6a) of 
the basic Regulation and the conditions for its application. Furthermore, the underlying factual situations in those 
cases are all different from the underlying situation and criteria giving rise to the application of the methodology 
under this provision of the basic Regulation. As for the WTO dispute EU – Cost Adjustment Methodologies, the 
Commission recalled that both the EU and Russia appealed the findings of the Panel, which are therefore not final 
and therefore, according to standing WTO case-law, have no legal status in the GATT or WTO system since they 
have not been endorsed through decisions by the Contracting Parties to GATT or WTO Members. In any event, the 
Panel Report specifically considered the provisions in Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation to be outside the scope 
of the dispute. The Panel found that these provisions are of a different essence and have different legal implications 
from the provisions under Article 2(5) of the basic Regulation, which were the object of that dispute and the Article 
2(6a) provisions did not replace the latter when they were introduced (18). Therefore, the findings made in the above 
mentioned cases have no relevance for the application of Article 2(6a), which is a new provision and was never 
subject to any WTO proceedings, and does not replace Article 2(5) and/or Article 2(3). These findings therefore 
have no significance for assessing the compatibility of Article 2(6a) with the relevant WTO rules. For these reasons, 
this claim was rejected.
(69)
Second, CCCMC and the three exporting producers submitted that in spite of the WTO findings referenced at recital 
(67) constituting an integral part of the EU findings on normal value under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the 
disclosure did not indicate any reasoning of how this provision was in line with the provisions in Article 2.2.1.1 
ADA and the corresponding provisions of Article 2(5) of the basic Regulation. Nor did it indicate any linkage 
between Article 2(6a) and a potential ‘particular market situation’ as referenced in Article 2.2 ADA and the 
corresponding provisions of Article 2(3) of basic Regulation. Furthermore, CCCMC and the three exporting 
producers claimed the Commission failed to provide an explanation on how the Commission’s use of third country 
data would be justified by Article 2(5) second subparagraph of the basic Regulation. Therefore, CCCMC and the three 
exporting producers claimed that the Commission failed to explain the legal consistency of Article 2(6a) with the 
cited WTO jurisprudence.
(70)
The Commission first recalled that the provisions of Article 2(5) and Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation apply to 
anti-dumping investigations provided the relevant conditions of these respective provisions are met. By contrast, the 
provisions of Article 2(6a) concern the specific case of investigations of products originating from countries in 
which the existence of significant distortions was confirmed, and where the existence of significant distortions 
renders the domestic costs and prices not appropriate for the purpose of the calculation of normal value. The 
procedure applied under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation and the substance of the assessment are therefore 
different from those under Articles 2(3) and 2(5) of the basic Regulation. In their claim, CCCMC and the three 
exporting producers assume that the provisions in Article 2(6a) are necessarily linked to the provisions in Article 
2(5) and 2(3) of the basic Regulation, and claim as a result that the Commission should legally justify the 
application of the methodology under Article 2(6a) under Articles 2(5) and/or 2(3) of the basic Regulation. This 
assumption by the CCCMC and the three exporting producers was purely speculative, because Article 2(6a) of the 
basic Regulation provides that once the relevant conditions for its application are met, then the methodology under 
this article must be applied. There are no requirements in this provision to conduct any supplementary legal analysis 
under Articles 2(3) and/or 2(5) of the basic Regulation, let alone their underlying jurisprudence, as CCCME and the 
three exporting producers wrongly assert. These provisions are separate from each other. Therefore, this claim was 
rejected.
(18) WTO DS 494, EU – Cost Adjustment Methodologies, paragraphs 7.76, 7.80 and 7.81.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/82                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
(71)
Third, CCCMC and the three exporting producers claimed that the findings of the Panel in EU – Cost Adjustment 
Methodologies concerning the application of Article 2(5) of the basic Regulation apply also to Article 2(6a). 
Furthermore, CCCMC and the three exporting producers submitted that the disclosure made no reference to 
adjustments made to Colombian data in order to reflect costs of production in China, which would be a required 
step under Article 2.2 ADA, which envisages an adjustment of any third country data used by the investigating 
authority necessary to reflect the costs of production in the country of origin.
(72)
The Commission noted in response that, as already explained in recitals (68) and (70), the findings made in the WTO 
investigations to date, including the EU – Cost Adjustment Methodologies, did not specifically concern the 
application of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation but of Article 2(5) of the basic Regulation. Most importantly, the 
findings in that dispute are not final as both the EU and Russia have appealed them and therefore, according to 
standing WTO case-law, have no legal status in the GATT or WTO system since they have not been endorsed 
through decisions by the Contracting Parties to GATT or WTO Members. Moreover, that Panel report specifically 
stated that the respective provisions are not of the same essence and have different legal implications than Article 
2(6a). Equally important, as explained in recital (53) and further discussed in recital (74) below, the relevant WTO 
jurisprudence does allow the use of data from a third country, where justified. With regard to the Colombian data, 
CCCMC and the three exporting producers are once again basing their claim on a mixing of the provisions in Article 
2(6a) of the basic Regulation, with Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation. As explained in detail below at Sections 3.3 
through 3.8 of this Regulation and in the specific disclosures, the Commission has used the relevant data in 
Colombia (or from other sources for certain factors of production) fully in line with the provisions of Article 2(6a) 
of the basic Regulation. Certain adjustments have been made to the relevant value to arrive at undistorted prices or 
benchmarks to construct normal value. Therefore this claim was rejected.
(73)
Fourth, CCCMC and the three exporting producers submitted that the Commission’s disclosed finding of likelihood 
of continuation of dumping in recitals 170-186 of the Disclosure and its intention to maintain the existing measures 
was not legitimate in light of the Panel’s findings in EU – Cost Adjustment Methodologies concerning the application 
of Article 11(3) of the ADA. CCCMC and the three exporting producers urged the Commission to explain and justify 
in detail its legal claim in recital 53 of the Disclosure that the methodology based on Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation is consistent with the applicable ADA provisions and jurisprudence.
(74)
Once again, the Commission highlights that the findings of this WTO Panel report are not final as they have been 
appealed by both the EU and Russia, and therefore, according to standing WTO case-law, have no legal status in the 
GATT or WTO system since they have not been endorsed through decisions by the Contracting Parties to GATT or 
WTO Members. Furthermore, the Panel explicitly ruled that Article 2(6a) was outside its terms of reference given 
the provision’s different essence and legal implications as compared to Article 2(5). Furthermore, as explained in 
recital (53), the Commission considered that according to the findings made in the WTO case EU – Biodiesel 
(DS473), the provisions of the basic Regulation that apply generally with respect to all WTO Members, in particular 
Article 2(5), second subparagraph, permit the use of data from a third country, duly adjusted when such adjustment 
is necessary and substantiated. Since there are no specific findings made by the WTO Dispute Settlement Body 
concerning the provisions under Article 2(6a), the Commission considered that if the findings made in the 
EU-Biodiesel (DS473) case are considered relevant in the different context and situation falling under Article 2(6a) 
of the basic anti-dumping Regulation, they would in any event be fully consistent with the possibility to use out-of- 
country data to source undistorted values in an appropriate representative country. Therefore this argument was 
rejected.
(75)
Fifth, CCCMC and the three exporting producers submitted that since the expiry of the WTO Chinese Accession 
Protocol in December 2016, there is no legal basis in the WTO to apply a normal value calculation outside the 
framework of the WTO ADA. Therefore, the EU is bound by its international obligations to strictly adhere to the 
provisions of Article 2 ADA bearing on the determination of normal value.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/83  
(76)
The Commission recalled at the outset that in anti-dumping proceedings concerning products from China, the parts 
of Section 15 of China’s Accession Protocol to the WTO that have not expired continue to apply when determining 
normal value, both with respect to the market economy standard and with respect to the use of a methodology that 
is not based on a strict comparison with Chinese prices or costs. Furthermore, the Commission recalled that Article 
2(6a) of the basic Regulation was introduced by Regulation (EU) 2017/2321 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (19) referring to Article 207(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union as its legal basis. As 
also clarified at recital (53), the provisions of Article 2(6a) are fully consistent with the EU’s international 
obligations, including the relevant WTO rules. Since the Commission has concluded in Section 3.2.1 that it is 
appropriate to apply Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation in this investigation and this provision is fully consistent 
with WTO rules, this claim was rejected.
(77)
Sixth, CCCMC and the three exporting producers stated that the findings in the investigation were based broadly on 
the 2017 Commission Report which relates not to the citric acid sector specifically but rather more generally to the 
broader chemical sector, to upstream raw material markets and/or to elements of the Chinese economy and Chinese 
government policies which clearly are not specific to the citric acid sector. In this regard, CCCMC and the three 
exporting producers observed that according to the WTO Appellate Body findings in US – Countervailing 
Measures, the Commission is required to conduct a case-by-case determination of any distortions. CCCMC and the 
three exporting producers added that they did not agree with the Commission’s statement that those findings are 
irrelevant to this case because they concern the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures 
(‘ASCM’). The CCCMC and the three exporting producers emphasised that those findings are relevant also in the 
case at hand.
(78)
The Commission recalled that under the ASCM, the context of the distortions are addressed from the specific point 
of view of the subsidisation they give rise to in favour of the exporting producers. The consequence of these 
proceedings is the application of a countervailing duty specifically calculated on the basis of the amount of 
injourious subsidisation found by an investigating authority. By contrast, in the anti-dumping context under Article 
2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the analysis is not focused on whether these distortions amount to a countervailable 
subsidy and meet the relevant conditions, but whether they are significant within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) 
and thus justify the application of the methodology for the calculation of normal value foreseen by this provision. 
The underlying legal order, situations and context are different, serve different purposes, and give rise to different 
legal consequences. Hence, the Commission maintained its view that the findings in the above mentioned case are 
not relevant to the current investigation and thus rejected this claim.
(79)
With regard to the argument that the 2017 Commission Report does not include a specific chapter on citric acid, the 
Commission noted that the existence of the significant distortions giving rise to the application of Article 2(6a) of 
the basic Regulation is not linked to the existence of a specific sectoral chapter covering the product under 
investigation. The Report describes different types of distortions present in the PRC which are cross-cutting and 
applicable throughout the Chinese economy and affect the prices and/or the raw materials and costs of production 
of the product under investigation. Furthermore, the Report is not the only source of evidence used by the 
Commission for its determination, as there are additional probationary elements used for this purpose. As 
explained in Sections 3.2.1.2 to 3.2.1.9 below, the citric acid industry is subject to a number of governmental 
interventions described in the Report (coverage by the Five-Year Plans and other documents, raw material 
distortions, financial distortions etc.), which are explicitly listed and referenced in this Regulation. In addition, 
recitals (94), (97), (100) and (101) of this Regulation have also detailed a number of distortions applicable to the 
citric acid sector and/or to its raw materials and its inputs beyond the significant distortions already contained in 
the Report. The market circumstances and the underlying policies and plans giving rise to the significant distortions 
are still applicable to the citric acid sector and that of its costs of production, despite the Report being released in 
December 2017. No party submitted any evidence to the contrary. Therefore, this argument was dismissed.
(19) OJ L 338, 19.12.2017, p. 1.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/84                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
(80)
Seventh, CCCMC and the three exporting producers argued that while the Commission mentioned various guiding 
governmental concepts and implementing provisions which allow for and may even expressly mandate government 
interventions in the economy, the Commission failed to demonstrate the existence of actual distortions as a consequence 
thereof. CCCMC and the three exporting producers added that pursuant to the Appellate Body findings in US – 
Countervailing Measures ‘the existence of price distortion resulting from government intervention has to be established 
and adequately explained’ and that ‘the determination must be made on a case-by-case basis.’ CCCMC and the three 
exporting producers further argued that the Commission’s price distortion analysis must be made on an individual 
producer by producer and cost by cost basis, because any actual exercise of governmental intervention may take place, 
for example, at different levels of government and with regard to different regions within the country, thus not affecting 
all producers of the product under investigation in all parts of the country in the same way.
(81)
The Commission recalled that Article 2(6a)(b) states that, when assessing the existence of significant distortions, the 
Commission must consider the ‘potential impact’ of the elements listed in that Article. The findings in Sections 
3.2.1.2 to 3.2.1.9 of this Regulation show that the Chinese citric acid producers do have preferential access to state 
financing and that there are countrywide distortions with regard to all six elements pointing to distortions, as listed 
in Article 2(6a)(b). Therefore, the presence of such distortions in the sector is relevant for the assessment of the 
existence of distortions under Article 2(6a)(b). The Commission further recalled that regardless of the exporting 
producers actually being affected by direct state intervention, such as the receipt of subsidies, their suppliers or 
other actors involved in the upstream or downstream markets of the production of the product concerned are likely 
to have been affected by state intervention, such as preferential access to finance, which is an additional indicator 
that prices or costs are not the result of free market forces. With regard to the reference to the WTO findings in US 
– Countervailing measures, as explained at recitals (57) and (78), the Commission reiterates that they are not 
relevant in the context of this investigation as they concern the anti-subsidy instrument, and in any event do not 
alter the findings of the existence of significant distortions under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. Therefore, 
this claim was dismissed.
(82)
Lastly, CCCMC and the three exporting producers submitted that the Disclosure consistently failed, both with regard to 
its references to general government policies or plans and with regard to alleged government intervention in the citric 
acid sector specifically, to cite instances of actual government intervention in the operations of the Chinese citric acid 
producers with the result of distorting these producers’ prices. As an example, CCCMC and the three exporting 
producers quoted the governmental plan mentioned in recital (76) of the Disclosure encouraging the citric acid 
producers to create larger enterprises by means of mergers and reorganisations. CCCMC and the three exporting 
producers claimed that the mentioned plan relates only to certain provinces, regions or areas of production, meaning 
that even the encouragement is not comprehensively extended to all producers across China, which again would 
justify a producer-by-producer analysis and disclosure. Furthermore, CCCMC and the three exporting producers added 
that simple ‘encouragement’ does not in fact equate to actual intervention to require mergers/reorganisations and the 
Commission failed to provide examples of actual intervention. Finally, CCCMC and the three exporting producers 
submitted that the same document included other measures, such as, the application of environmental protection 
standards, clean production verification efforts and comprehensive improvements of energy conservation and 
emissions reduction, reduction of energy and water consumption, and promotion of clean production and recycling. 
All of these measures would reasonably be more efficient to apply if production units are larger, as encouraged.
(83)
The Commission recalled that the governmental ‘encouragement’ of certain actions, such as mergers and 
reorganisations to create larger conglomerates, are not just empty declarations and recommendations, but that there 
are actual financial incentives supporting the recommendations made by the government in the official plans (see 
Section 3.2.1.8 and recital (110) in particular). Even if, based on its plan, the Chinese government would not force 
or oblige the companies to group into larger entities, quod non, there are in any event certain financial benefits or 
favourable lending conditions available to the enterprises deciding to follow the plan’s recommendations, hence the 
free market forces which would steer the companies in the absence of such plans are distorted. In any event, the 
analysis and findings in Sections 3.2.1.2 to 3.2.1.9 of this Regulation clearly show the existence of significant 
distortions in the citric acid sector, and the fact that they are likely to affect the suppliers of raw materials to the 
producers of the product concerned.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/85  
(84)
The Commission thus proceeded to examine whether it was appropriate or not to use domestic prices and costs in 
China, due to the existence of significant distortions within the meaning of point (b) of Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation. The Commission did so on the basis of the evidence available on the file, including the evidence 
contained in the Report, which relies on publicly available sources. That analysis covered the examination of the 
substantial government interventions in the Chinese economy in general, but also the specific market situation in 
the relevant sector including the product under review. On this basis these claims were rejected.
3.2.1.2. Significant distortions affecting the domestic prices and costs in China
(85)
The Chinese economic system is based on the concept of a ‘socialist market economy’. That concept is enshrined in 
the Chinese Constitution and determines the economic governance of China. The core principle is the ‘socialist 
public ownership of the means of production, namely, ownership by the whole people and collective ownership by 
the working people’. The State-owned economy is the ‘leading force of the national economy’ and the State has the 
mandate ‘to ensure its consolidation and growth’ (20). Consequently, the overall setup of the Chinese economy not 
only allows for substantial government interventions into the economy, but such interventions are expressly 
mandated. The notion of supremacy of public ownership over the private one permeates the entire legal system and 
is emphasized as a general principle in all central pieces of legislation. The Chinese property law is a prime example: 
it refers to China being in the primary stage of socialism and entrusts the State with upholding the basic economic 
system under which public ownership plays a dominant role. Other forms of ownership are tolerated, with the law 
permitting them to develop side by side with State ownership (21).
(86)
In addition, under Chinese law, the socialist market economy is developed under the leadership of the Chinese 
Communist Party (‘CCP’). The structures of the Chinese State and of the CCP are intertwined at every level (legal, 
institutional, personal), forming a superstructure in which the roles of CCP and the State are indistinguishable. 
Following an amendment of the Chinese Constitution in March 2018, the leading role of the CCP was given an even 
greater prominence by being reaffirmed in the text of Article 1 of the Constitution. Following the already existing 
first sentence of the provision: ‘[t]he socialist system is the basic system of the People’s Republic of China’ a new 
second sentence was inserted which reads: ‘[t]he defining feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the 
leadership of the Communist Party of China.’ (22) This illustrates the unquestioned and ever growing control of the 
CCP over the economic system of China. This leadership and control is inherent to the Chinese system and goes 
well beyond the situation customary in other countries where the government exercises general macroeconomic 
control within the boundaries of which free market forces are at play.
(87)
The Chinese State engages in an interventionist economic policy in pursuance of goals, which coincide with the 
political agenda set by the CCP rather than reflecting the prevailing economic conditions in a free market (23). The 
interventionist economic tools deployed by the Chinese authorities are manifold, including the system of industrial 
planning, the financial system, as well as the level of the regulatory environment.
(88)
First, on the level of overall administrative control, the direction of the Chinese economy is governed by a complex 
system of industrial planning which affects all economic activities within the country. The totality of these plans 
covers a comprehensive and complex matrix of sectors and crosscutting policies and is present on all levels of 
government. Plans at provincial level are detailed while national plans set broader targets. Plans also specify the 
means in order to support the relevant industries/sectors as well as the timeframes in which the objectives need to 
be achieved. Some plans still contain explicit output targets while this was a regular feature in previous planning 
cycles. Under the plans, individual industrial sectors and/or projects are being singled out as (positive or negative) 
priorities in line with the government priorities and specific development goals are attributed to them (industrial 
upgrade, international expansion, etc.). The economic operators, private and State-owned alike, must effectively 
(20) Report – Chapter 2, p. 6-7.
(21) Report – Chapter 2, p. 10.
(22) Available athttp://www.fdi.gov.cn/1800000121_39_4866_0_7.html (last viewed 15 July 2019).
(23) Report – Chapter 2, p. 20-21.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/86                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
adjust their business activities according to the realities imposed by the planning system. This is not only because of 
the binding nature of the plans but also because the relevant Chinese authorities at all levels of government adhere to 
the system of plans and use their vested powers accordingly, thereby inducing the economic operators to comply 
with the priorities set out in the plans (see also Section 3.2.1.5 below) (24).
(89)
Second, on the level of allocation of financial resources, the financial system of China is dominated by the State- 
owned commercial banks. Those banks, when setting up and implementing their lending policy need to align 
themselves with the government’s industrial policy objectives rather than primarily assessing the economic merits 
of a given project (see also Section 3.2.1.8 below) (25). The same applies to the other components of the Chinese 
financial system, such as the stock markets, bond markets, private equity markets etc. Also these parts of the 
financial sector other than the banking sector are institutionally and operationally set up in a manner not geared 
towards maximizing the efficient functioning of the financial markets but towards ensuring control and allowing 
intervention by the State and the CCP (26).
(90)
Third, on the level of regulatory environment, the interventions by the State into the economy take a number of 
forms. For instance, the public procurement rules are regularly used in pursuit of policy goals other than economic 
efficiency, thereby undermining market based principles in the area. The applicable legislation specifically provides 
that public procurement shall be conducted in order to facilitate the achievement of goals designated by State 
policies. However, the nature of these goals remains undefined, thereby leaving a broad margin of appreciation to 
the decision-making bodies (27). Similarly, in the area of investment, the GOC maintains significant control and 
influence over destination and magnitude of both State and private investment. Investment screening as well as 
various incentives, restrictions, and prohibitions related to investment are used by authorities as an important tool 
for supporting industrial policy goals, such as maintaining State control over key sectors or bolstering domestic 
industry (28).
(91)
In sum, the Chinese economic model is based on certain basic axioms, which provide for and encourage manifold 
government interventions. Such substantial government interventions are at odds with the free play of market 
forces, resulting in distorting the effective allocation of resources in line with market principles (29).
3.2.1.3. Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), first indent of the basic Regulation: the market in 
question being served to a significant extent by enterprises which operate under the ownership, control or 
policy supervision or guidance of the authorities of the exporting country.
(92)
In China, enterprises operating under the ownership, control and/or policy supervision or guidance by the State 
represent an essential part of the economy.
(93)
The GOC and the CCP maintain structures that ensure their continued influence over enterprises, and in particular 
State-owned enterprises (SOEs). The State (and in many aspects also the CCP) not only actively formulates and 
oversees the implementation of general economic policies by individual SOEs, but it also claims its rights to 
participate in operational decision making in SOEs. This is typically done through the rotation of cadres between 
government authorities and SOEs, through the presence of party members on SOEs executive bodies and of party 
cells in companies (see also Section 3.2.1.4), as well as through the shaping of the corporate structure of the SOE 
sector (30). In exchange, SOEs enjoy a particular status within the Chinese economy, which entails a number of 
(24) Report – Chapter 3, p. 41, 73-74.
(25) Report – Chapter 6, p. 120-121.
(26) Report – Chapter 6. p. 122-135.
(27) Report – Chapter 7, p. 167-168.
(28) Report – Chapter 8, p. 169-170, 200-201.
(29) Report – Chapter 2, p. 15-16, Report – Chapter 4, p. 50, p. 84, Report – Chapter 5, p. 108-9.
(30) Report – Chapter 3, p. 22-24 and Chapter 5, p. 97-108.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/87  
economic benefits, in particular shielding from competition and preferential access to relevant inputs, including 
finance (31). The elements that point to the existence of government control over enterprises in the citric acid sector 
is further developed in Section 3.2.1.4 below.
(94)
Specifically in the citric acid sector, a certain degree of ownership by the GOC is evident. The investigation showed 
that at least three of the exporting producers, COFCO, Jiangsu Guoxin Union Energy and Laiwu Taihe, are SOEs. 
Furthermore, according to the Grain and Oil Processing 13th Five-Year Plan, the citric acid industry is encouraged to 
create larger enterprises by the means of mergers and reorganisations (32). This encouragement is evidence of 
involvement by the government in industry affairs.
(95)
With the high level of government intervention in the citric acid industry and the prevalence of SOEs this sector, 
even privately owned producers are prevented from operating under market conditions. Indeed, both publicly and 
privately owned enterprises in the citric acid sector are subject to policy supervision and guidance as further set out 
in Section 3.2.1.5 below.
3.2.1.4. Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), second indent of the basic Regulation: State presence 
in firms allowing the state to interfere with respect to prices or costs
(96)
Apart from exercising control over the economy by means of ownership of SOEs and other tools, the GOC is in a 
position to interfere with prices and costs through State presence in firms. While the right to appoint and to 
remove key management personnel in SOEs by the relevant State authorities, as provided for in the Chinese 
legislation, can be considered to reflect the corresponding ownership rights (33), CCP cells in enterprises, state 
owned and private alike, represent another important channel through which the State can interfere with business 
decisions. According to Chinese company law, a CCP organisation is to be established in every company (with at 
least three CCP members as specified in the CCP Constitution (34)) and the company shall provide the necessary 
conditions for the activities of the party organisation. In the past, this requirement appears not to always have been 
followed or to have been strictly enforced. However, since at least 2016 the CCP has reinforced its claims to control 
business decisions in SOEs as a matter of political principle. The CCP is also reported to have exercised pressure on 
private companies to put ‘patriotism’ first and to follow party discipline (35). In 2017, it was reported that party cells 
existed in 70 % of some 1,86 million privately owned companies, with growing pressure for CCP organisations to 
have a final say over the business decisions within their respective companies (36). These rules are of general 
application throughout the Chinese economy, across all sectors, including to the producers of citric acid and the 
suppliers of their inputs.
(97)
Specifically in the citric acid sector, as already pointed out, some producers are owned by the State. Furthermore, the 
investigation revealed that five of the citric acid producers, including Cofco, Weifang Ensign, RZBC, Jiangsu Guoxin 
and Laiwu Taihe Biochemistry have CCP links among the senior management as well as party building activities.
(98)
The State’s presence and intervention in the financial markets (see also Section 3.2.1.8 below) as well as in the 
provision of raw materials and inputs further have an additional distorting effect on the market (37). Thus, the State 
presence in firms, including SOEs, in the citric acid and other sectors (such as the financial and input sectors) allow 
the GOC to interfere with respect to prices and costs.
(31) Report – Chapter 5, p. 104-9.
(32) See Grain and Oil Processing 13th Five-Year Plan, Section IV.2.1, available online athttp://www.gov.cn/xinwen/2017-01/03/ 
content_5155835.htm (last accessed 21 December 2020).
(33) Report – Chapter 5, p. 100-1.
(34) Report – Chapter 2, p. 26.
(35) Report – Chapter 2, p. 31-2.
(36) Available athttps://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-congress-companies-idUSKCN1B40JU (last viewed 15 July 2019).
(37) Report – Chapters 14.1 to 14.3.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/88                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
3.2.1.5. Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), third indent of the basic Regulation: public policies or 
measures discriminating in favour of domestic suppliers or otherwise influencing free market forces
(99)
The direction of the Chinese economy is to a significant degree determined by an elaborate system of planning which 
sets out priorities and prescribes the goals the central and local governments must focus on. Relevant plans exist on 
all levels of government and cover virtually all economic sectors. The objectives set by the planning instruments are 
of binding nature and the authorities at each administrative level monitor the implementation of the plans by the 
corresponding lower level of government. Overall, the system of planning in China results in resources being driven 
to sectors designated as strategic or otherwise politically important by the government, rather than being allocated in 
line with market forces (38).
(100) While the citric acid industry in itself is not a key industry in China, the raw materials used in the production of citric 
acid are heavily regulated in China. The main raw material, corn, is subject to intensive regulation.
(101) China holds large amounts of corn stockpiles allowing the government to artificially lower or raise the prices of this 
commodity by purchasing or selling large amounts of corn on the market. Even though China started tackling the 
problem of excessive corn reserves in 2016, it still holds very large stockpiles, which have a distortive effect on 
prices (39). Furthermore, the government is controlling the various aspects of the entire corn value chain, including 
subsidies on the production of corn (40) and supervision of the processing: ‘[a]ll local authorities shall expand the 
monitoring and analysis of the corn supply and demand in the relevant areas, strengthen the supervision of the 
building phase and post-building phase of corn deep processing projects, foster the balance of corn supply and 
demand and ensure national food security’ (41). There are also investment control measures in place in the PRC: ‘[t] 
he filing for building corn deep processing projects shall be subject to harmonized management in accordance with 
the State Council Order No 673’ (42). This involvement of the government in the entire value chain has, at least 
potentially, a distortive effect on prices.
(102) In sum, the GOC has measures in place to induce operators to comply with the public policy objectives to support 
encouraged industries, including the production of corn; corn being the main raw material used in the 
manufacturing of citric acid. Such measures impede market forces from operating freely.
3.2.1.6. Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), fourth indent of the basic Regulation: the lack, 
discriminatory application or inadequate enforcement of bankruptcy, corporate or property laws
(103) According to the information on file, the Chinese bankruptcy system delivers inadequately on its own main 
objectives, such as the fair settlement of claims and debts and the safeguarding of the lawful rights and interests of 
creditors and debtors. This appears to be rooted in the fact that while the Chinese bankruptcy law formally rests on 
principles that are similar to those applied in corresponding laws in countries other than China, the Chinese system 
is characterised by systematic under-enforcement. The number of bankruptcies remains notoriously low in relation 
to the size of the country’s economy, not least because the insolvency proceedings suffer from a number of 
shortcomings, which effectively function as a disincentive for bankruptcy filings. Moreover, the role of the State in 
the insolvency proceedings remains strong and active, often having a direct influence on the outcome of the 
proceedings (43).
(104) In addition, the shortcomings of the system of property rights are particularly obvious in relation to ownership of 
land and land-use rights in China (44). All land is owned by the Chinese State (collectively owned rural land and 
State-owned urban land). Its allocation remains solely dependent on the State. There are legal provisions that aim at 
(38) Report – Chapter 4, p. 41-42, 83.
(39) Report – Chapter 12, p. 319.
(40) Information on subsidies available on the Ministry of Agriculture website:http://www.moa.gov.cn/gk/zcfg/qnhnzc/201904/ 
t20190416_6179338.htm
(41) See NDRC Notice 2017/627 repealing the ‘NDRC Notice on Matters Concerning the Management of Corn Deep Processing Projects’, 
available at:https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/fggz/cyfz/zcyfz/201704/t20170417_1149901.html
(42) Ibid.
(43) Report – Chapter 6, p. 138-149.
(44) Report – Chapter 9, p. 216.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/89  
allocating land use rights in a transparent manner and at market prices, for instance by introducing bidding 
procedures. However, these provisions are regularly not respected, with certain buyers obtaining their land for free 
or below market rates (45). Moreover, authorities often pursue specific political goals, including the implementation 
of the economic plans, when allocating land (46).
(105) The Commission preliminarily concluded that the Chinese bankruptcy, corporate and property laws do not work 
properly, thus generating distortions by maintaining insolvent firms afloat and through the allocation of land use 
rights in China. Like other sectors in the Chinese economy, the producers of citric acid are subject to these laws, and 
are thus subject to the top-down distortions arising from their discriminatory application or inadequate 
enforcement. The present investigation revealed nothing that would call those findings into question.
(106) In light of the above, the Commission concluded that there was discriminatory application or inadequate 
enforcement of bankruptcy and property laws in the citric acid sector, including with respect to the product under 
review.
3.2.1.7. Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), fifth indent of the basic Regulation: wage costs being 
distorted
(107) A system of market-based wages cannot fully develop in China as workers and employers are impeded in their rights 
to collectively organise. China has not ratified a number of essential conventions of the International Labour 
Organisation (‘ILO’), in particular those on freedom of association and on collective bargaining (47). Under national 
law, only one trade union organisation is active. However, this organisation lacks independence from State 
authorities and its engagement in collective bargaining and protection of workers’ rights remains rudimentary (48). 
Moreover, the mobility of the Chinese workforce is restricted by the household registration system, which limits 
access to the full range of social security and other benefits to local residents of a given administrative area. This 
typically results in workers who are not in possession of the local residence registration finding themselves in a 
vulnerable employment position and receiving lower income than the holders of the residence registration (49). 
Those findings lead to the distortion of wage costs in China.
(108) No evidence was submitted to the effect that the citric acid sector is not subject to the Chinese labour law system 
described above. The citric acid sector is thus affected by the distortions of wage costs both directly (when 
producing the product under review or the main raw material for its production) as well as indirectly (when having 
access to capital or inputs from companies subject to the same labour system in China).
3.2.1.8. Significant distortions according to Article 2(6a)(b), sixth indent of the basic Regulation: access to finance 
granted by institutions which implement public policy objectives or are otherwise not acting 
independently of the State
(109) Access to capital for corporate actors in China is subject to various distortions.
(110) First, the Chinese financial system is characterised by the strong position of State-owned banks (50), which, when 
granting access to finance, take into consideration criteria other than the economic viability of a project. Similarly 
to non-financial SOEs, the banks remain connected to the State not only through ownership but also via personal 
relations (the top executives of large State-owned financial institutions are ultimately appointed by the CCP) (51) and, 
again just like non-financial SOEs, the banks regularly implement public policies designed by the government. In 
doing so, the banks comply with an explicit legal obligation to conduct their business in accordance with the needs 
(45) Report – Chapter 9, p. 213-215.
(46) Report – Chapter 9, p. 209-211.
(47) Report – Chapter 13, p. 332-337.
(48) Report – Chapter 13, p. 336.
(49) Report – Chapter 13, p. 337-341.
(50) Report – Chapter 6, p. 114-117.
(51) Report – Chapter 6, p. 119.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/90                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
of the national economic and social development and under the guidance of the industrial policies of the State (52). 
This is compounded by additional existing rules, which direct finances into sectors designated by the government as 
encouraged or otherwise important (53).
(111) While it is acknowledged that various legal provisions refer to the need to respect normal banking behaviour and 
prudential rules such as the need to examine the creditworthiness of the borrower, the overwhelming evidence, 
including findings made in trade defence investigations, suggests that these provisions play only a secondary role in 
the application of the various legal instruments.
(112) Furthermore, bond and credit ratings are often distorted for a variety of reasons including the fact that the risk 
assessment is influenced by the firm’s strategic importance to the GOC and the strength of any implicit guarantee 
by the government. Estimates strongly suggest that Chinese credit ratings systematically correspond to lower 
international ratings (54).
(113) This is compounded by additional existing rules, which direct finances into sectors designated by the government as 
encouraged or otherwise important (55). This results in a bias in favour of lending to SOEs, large well-connected 
private firms and firms in key industrial sectors, which implies that the availability and cost of capital is not equal 
for all players on the market.
(114) Secondly, borrowing costs have been kept artificially low to stimulate investment growth. This has led to the 
excessive use of capital investment with ever lower returns on investment. This is illustrated by the recent growth in 
corporate leverage in the state sector despite a sharp fall in profitability, which suggests that the mechanisms at work 
in the banking system do not follow normal commercial responses.
(115) Thirdly, although nominal interest rate liberalization was achieved in October 2015, price signals are still not the 
result of free market forces, but are influenced by government induced distortions. Indeed, the share of lending at 
or below the benchmark rate still represents 45 % of all lending and recourse to targeted credit appears to have been 
stepped up, since this share has increased markedly since 2015 in spite of worsening economic conditions. 
Artificially low interest rates result in under-pricing, and consequently, the excessive utilization of capital.
(116) Overall credit growth in China indicates a worsening efficiency of capital allocation without any signs of credit 
tightening that would be expected in an undistorted market environment. As a result, non-performing loans have 
increased rapidly in recent years. Faced with a situation of increasing debt-at-risk, the GOC has opted to avoid 
defaults. Consequently, bad debt issues have been handled by rolling over debt, thus creating so called ‘zombie’
companies, or by transferring the ownership of the debt (e.g. via mergers or debt-to-equity swaps), without 
necessarily removing the overall debt problem or addressing its root causes.
(117) In essence, despite the recent steps that have been taken to liberalize the market, the corporate credit system in China 
is affected by significant distortions resulting from the continuing pervasive role of the state in the capital markets.
(118) No evidence was submitted to the effect that the citric acid sector, and/or the suppliers of this sector, would be 
exempted from the above-described government intervention in the financial system. Therefore, the substantial 
government intervention in the financial system leads to the market conditions being severely affected at all levels.
(52) Report – Chapter 6, p. 120.
(53) Report – Chapter 6, p. 121-122, 126-128, 133-135.
(54) See IMF Working Paper ‘Resolving China’s Corporate Debt Problem’, by Wojciech Maliszewski, Serkan Arslanalp, John Caparusso, José 
Garrido, Si Guo, Joong Shik Kang, W. Raphael Lam, T. Daniel Law, Wei Liao, Nadia Rendak, Philippe Wingender, Jiangyan, October 
2016, WP/16/203.
(55) Report – Chapter 6, p. 121-122, 126-128, 133-135.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/91  
3.2.1.9. Systemic nature of the distortions described
(119) The Commission noted that the distortions described in the Report are characteristic for the Chinese economy. The 
evidence available shows that the facts and features of the Chinese system as described above in Sections 3.2.1.1 to 
3.2.1.5 as well as in Part A of the Report apply throughout the country and across the sectors of the economy. The 
same holds true for the description of the factors of production as set out above in Sections 3.2.1.6 to 3.2.1.8 above 
and in Part B of the Report.
(120) The Commission recalled that in order to produce citric acid, a broad range of inputs is needed, including corn, dried 
sweet potatoes, sulphuric acid, hydrochloric acid, coal etc. According to evidence on the file, most of the sampled 
exporting producers sourced all their inputs in China, and the imported inputs constitute a negligible proportion of 
the raw materials of those exporting producers who source some inputs abroad. When the producers of citric acid 
purchase or contract for these inputs, the prices they pay (and which are recorded as their costs) are clearly exposed 
to the same systemic distortions mentioned above. For instance, suppliers of inputs employ labour that is subject to 
distortions. They may have borrowed funds that are subject to the distortions in the financial sector. In addition, they 
are subject to the planning system that applies across all levels of government and sectors.
(121) As a consequence, not only are the domestic sales prices of citric acid not appropriate for use within the meaning of 
Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, all the input costs (including raw materials, energy, land, financing, labour, 
etc.) are affected because their price formation is affected by substantial government intervention, as described in 
Parts A and B of the Report. Indeed, the government interventions described in relation to the allocation of capital, 
land, labour, energy and raw materials are present throughout China. This means, for instance, that any input 
produced in China, even if it combines several factors of production, is exposed to significant distortions. The same 
applies to the input of the input, and so on. No evidence or argument to the contrary has been adduced by the GOC 
or the exporting producers in the present investigation.
3.2.1.10. Conclusion
(122) The analysis set out in Sections 3.2.1.2 to 3.2.1.9, which includes an examination of all the available evidence 
relating to Chinese intervention in its economy in general as well as in the citric acid sector (including the product 
under review) showed that prices and costs of the product under review, including the costs of raw materials, 
energy and labour, are not the result of free market forces because they are affected by substantial government 
intervention within the meaning of Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation, as shown by the actual or potential 
impact of one or more of the relevant elements listed therein. On that basis, and in the absence of any cooperation 
from the GOC, the Commission concluded that it is not appropriate to use domestic prices and costs to establish 
normal value in this case.
(123) Consequently, the Commission proceeded to construct the normal value exclusively on the basis of costs of 
production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks, that is, in this case, on the basis of corresponding 
costs of production and sale in an appropriate representative country, in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the 
basic Regulation, as discussed in the following section.
3.3. Representative country
(124) In accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission chose an appropriate representative 
country to determine undistorted prices or benchmarks for the costs of production and sale of the product under 
review on the basis of the following criteria:
— A level of economic development similar to China. For this purpose, the Commission considered countries with 
a gross national income similar to China on the basis of the database of the World Bank,
— Production of the product under review in that country,
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/92                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
— Availability of relevant public data in that country, and
— Where there is more than one possible representative country, preference would be given, where appropriate, to 
a country with an adequate level of social and environmental protection.
(125) The Commission published two notes to the file on the sources for the determination of the normal value and on the 
representative country on this basis.
(126) In the Note of 5 March 2020, the Commission provided detailed information concerning the criteria above and 
identified Brazil, Colombia and Thailand as potential appropriate representative countries. The Commission also 
identified the producers of the product under review in the potential appropriate representative countries for which 
it found publically available financial data.
(127) The Commission invited interested parties to submit comments in this regard. The Commission received comments 
concerning various aspects of the selection of the representative country from CCCMC, the four cooperating 
exporting producers and from the Union industry.
(128) In their submissions of 23 March 2020, CCCMC and the four Chinese exporting producers indicated that Brazil 
would be the best representative country. First, based on the database of the World Bank, Brazil’s gross national 
income (‘GNI’) is the closest to that of China, whilst the GNI of Colombia and Thailand is much lower. Also, the two 
companies in Brazil identified as producers of citric acid were profitable in recent years. In addition, Brazil has an 
adequate level of social and environmental protection. At the same time, CCCMC and the cooperating exporting 
producers expressed their opposition to the choice of Colombia as the appropriate representative country. They 
claimed that some of the import data of Colombia concerning certain factors of production was not available or 
representative. They also argued that Colombia’s import prices of some of the key raw materials (i.e. sulphuric acid, 
hydrochloric acid and raw coal) were substantially and unreasonably higher than those of the other potential 
representative countries and thus should not be regarded as undistorted prices that could be used to construct the 
normal value of citric acid.
(129) CCCMC and the cooperating exporting producers also submitted that Thailand was not an appropriate 
representative country as two of the three identified producers of citric acid were unprofitable in 2018 and the third 
one was mainly focused on export markets.
(130) In their submission, the Union industry considered that Colombia was the most appropriate choice for determining 
undistorted costs. They stressed that the financial data of the companies in Thailand was not audited, which greatly 
reduced their value in terms of reliability. In addition, they claimed that two of the three identified producers in 
Thailand were majority-owned by Chinese companies or by the Chinese State and that they were export-oriented. 
As regards Brazil, the Union industry argued that the two Brazilian companies belonged to groups and the influence 
of group on the financial data appeared to be difficult to assess, and these companies also sold a diverse range of 
products.
(131) The Commission, after analysing in detail the above arguments, published a second Note on 30 November 2020
addressing all these comments on the basis of the criteria listed above and informing interested parties of its 
preliminary conclusions. The Commission stated in this Note that it intended to use Colombia as appropriate 
representative country if the existence of significant distortions would be confirmed. The Commission further 
indicated that for the calculation of normal value it may also use appropriate undistorted international prices, costs 
or benchmarks, and for undistorted selling, general and administrative costs (‘SG&A’) and profits it may consider all 
the suitable alternatives available in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. In particular, as the only 
Colombian company producing the product under review had low profitability in 2018 and was loss-making 
in 2017 – similar to the situation for the producers in Thailand and Brazil, the Commission would consider more 
recent data if available and if they would show a reasonable level of SG&A and profitability. The Commission 
invited interested parties to comment.
(132) The Commission received comments from CCCMC and the Union producers regarding the Note of 30 November 
2020.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/93  
(133) In its submission of 9 December 2020, CCCMC maintained that Colombia was not an appropriate representative 
country and Brazil should be selected as the appropriate country instead. It argued that lower corn import prices in 
Brazil were due to the advantages of transportation distances and quantity rather than any distortion. They further 
argued that if Brazilian import prices could not be used, international prices should be used instead of excluding 
Brazil altogether from the choice of representative country. CCCMC also maintained that Colombia was not an 
appropriate representative country as the identified producer had unreasonable operating expenses.
(134) The Union industry maintained that Colombia was the most appropriate representative country. Given that the 
Colombian company producing the product under review was loss-making or had low profitability in 2018 and 
also in 2019, for which data became available in the meantime, one of the Union producers identified a number of 
companies producing a product similar to the product under review. In particular, the Union producer focused on 
companies manufacturing ingredients for the beverage, cleaning, food, health and pharmaceutical industry in 
Colombia whose financial data showed a reasonable level of SG&A and profits in line with the provisions of the 
basic Regulation.
(135) The Commission considered carefully all the arguments raised by all the parties. With regard to Thailand, the 
Commission agreed with CCCMC and the Union producer that it is not an appropriate representative country as 
producers of the product under review are loss-making and/or are subsidiaries of Chinese companies plus export 
restrictions exist for certain factors of production. In addition, the companies manufacturing the product under 
review did not show a reasonable level of SG&A and profits. Therefore, Thailand was dismissed.
(136) The Commission thus focused its analysis on Brazil and Colombia. The Commission first analysed whether there 
were export restrictions or other distortions concerning the main factors of production. The main factor of 
production of the product under review is corn, accounting for more than 70 % of the total cost of input materials 
for the exporting producers. The Commission noted that the quantity of imports of corn into Brazil accounted for 
only 1,5 million tonnes, compared to Brazilian domestic corn production of over 100 million tonnes (56). CCCMC 
contested the fact that these import quantities of corn into Brazil are low. However, when compared to the size of 
the Brazilian production, these import quantities only account for 1,5 % of production. Given this very limited 
import quantity relative to the large domestic production, the Commission also checked the import prices into 
Brazil and noted that they differed significantly from the international corn prices. In its comments to the Note of 
30 November, CCCMC contested that prices differed significantly and asked for additional information on the price 
comparison. The 2019 average international corn price referenced by the Commission in the Note of 30 November 
amounted to EUR 151/tonne on a FOB basis according to IndexMundi (57), while the average GTA import price of 
corn into Brazil amounted to only EUR 116/tonne on a FOB basis. This figure clearly shows that the import prices 
into Brazil were significantly lower than the international price index.
(137) In addition, CCCMC argued that corn import prices were lower in Brazil than in Colombia due to lower transport 
costs as imports into Brazil were mainly made from neighbouring countries like Argentina and Paraguay, whereas 
Colombia imports corn predominantly from the US and Argentina. This allegation was not substantiated, as 
CCCMC did not show the actual origin and port of entry in the respective countries, nor did it show the incidence 
of transport costs of corn into the respective countries. Therefore, this argument was dismissed.
(138) CCCMC also submitted that Chinese producers purchase a large quantity of their corn domestically. Therefore, it 
claimed that the import price of Brazil would better reflect the situation of the Chinese producers’ purchases of 
corn. The Commission noted that this argument does not have any bearing on the fact that the import quantities 
into Brazil are objectively low as compared to the size of the domestic production, thus undermining the representa­
(56) https://www.indexmundi.com/agriculture/?commodity=corn
(57) https://www.indexmundi.com/commodities/?commodity=corn&months=60&currency=eur
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/94                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
tiveness of the corn import price into Brazil. This argument also does not detract from the conclusion that import 
prices into Brazil differ significantly from international corn prices, which is probably due to the low level of 
imports and the significant size of domestic production. Therefore, this argument was dismissed.
(139) CCCMC further argued that, even if the import prices of corn into Brazil could not be used because they were 
unrepresentative, quod non, Brazil should still be selected as the representative country, and an appropriate 
undistorted international price for corn should be applied instead of the import prices into Brazil.
(140) In response, the Commission noted that, as explained further in this section, it considered Colombia as an 
appropriate representative country in this investigation on the basis of the relevant elements listed in the basic 
Regulation, including the availability of more appropriate financial data for producers of products similar to citric 
acid as compared to Brazil. As concerns the Colombian import quantities and prices of corn, according to 
IndexMundi the total domestic corn production in Colombia amounts to 1,5 million tonnes whereas, according to 
GTA data, corn imports are around 5,5 million tonnes, thus accounting for 365 % of production. This comparison 
shows that the import quantities into Colombia seem to be representative taking into account the size of the 
domestic production, unlike Brazil. As for corn prices, the average GTA corn import price into Colombia for 2019 
was 174 EUR/tonne on a CIF basis, much closer to and in line with the average international corn price of 151 
EUR/tonne on a FOB basis, taking into account that the international import price on a CIF basis would be higher. 
Since Colombia is considered an appropriate representative country in other respects, as further detailed below; the 
corn import prices into Colombia are largely in line with the international corn prices; and there is no evidence of 
any distortion affecting corn prices in Colombia; there is no reason to select Brazil as an appropriate representative 
country and use an international benchmark instead of the import prices into the appropriate representative county 
as prescribed by Article 2(6a)(a), 2nd subparagraph, first dash.
(141) With regard to the remaining factors of production, export restrictions for certain factors of production exist in 
Brazil (export licensing requirement for lime) and Thailand (export licensing requirement for gypsum), while none 
exist in Colombia, as confirmed by the relevant OECD List (58). While these factors have a much more limited 
weight in the cost of production of certain exporting producers and did not apply to all exporting producers, this 
was another relevant element in the choice of the appropriate representative country.
(142) For the choice of the appropriate representative country, the Commission also looked at the availability of public 
financial data for producers of the product under review in Thailand, Brazil, and Colombia in line with the basic 
Regulation.
(143) Because Thailand was not considered a suitable representative country, as explained in recital (117), the Commission 
focused its comparative analysis on Brazil and Colombia.
(144) With regard to Brazil and Colombia, the Commission indicated in the Note of 5 March the companies producing 
citric acid in those countries. At that time, there were no producers with reasonable profits in either Brazil or 
Colombia for 2018.
(145) In the Note of 30 November 2020, the Commission stated that the Colombian company Sucroal SA, for which 
SG&A and profit data were publicly available, was an appropriate representative company as it produces the 
product under review and a product range closer to citric acid. At the same time, Sucroal SA showed a low level of 
profitability in 2018 and was loss making in 2017.
(146) The situation was similar in Brazil, where the Brazilian company for which financial data was publicly available, a 
large conglomerate producing a wider range of products including citric acid, showed a low profitability for 2018. 
The Commission flagged in the Note of 30 November 2020 that if more recent data for the year 2019 would 
(58) https://qdd.oecd.org/subject.aspx?Subject=ExportRestrictions_IndustrialRawMaterials
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/95  
become available, the Commission may use this data if they showed a reasonable level of SG&A and profitability, or, 
if this were not the case, the Commission would consider all the suitable alternatives available.
(147) Following the publication of this Note of 30 November 2020, the 2019 data for Sucroal SA became available in 
Orbis. As Sucroal SA incurred a loss in 2019, the financial data for this company could not be considered 
appropriate for establishing an undistorted level of SG&A and profits.
(148) The Commission therefore considered suitable alternatives. In particular, in situations where no producer of the 
product under review in a potential representative country shows a reasonable level of SG&A and profits, the 
Commission may consider producers of a product in the same general category and/or sector of the product under 
review with publically available financial data showing a reasonable level of SG&A and profits.
(149) CCCMC submitted that since Sucroal SA showed losses for the year 2019, Colombia should not be considered as an 
appropriate representative country and Brazil should be used instead. CCCMC noted that the identified producer 
Cargill Agricola was again profitable in 2019 and hence its SG&A and profit were appropriate for the needs of the 
investigation. However, the Commission noted that Cargill Agricola’s profit amounted to less than one percent of 
its turnover in 2019, and was therefore even lower than its profit in 2018. This low level of profit was at a similar 
level as for Sucroal SA in the same year and not considered reasonable. Therefore, this argument was dismissed.
(150) In its two sets of comments, the Union industry suggested to use the data from companies in the same country, 
manufacturing the same category of goods or being in the same manufacturing sector as the product under review. 
The category of manufacturers of ingredients for the beverage, cleaning, food, health and pharmaceutical industry 
in Colombia was suggested together with a list of eleven companies in the same sector.
(151) Considering all the facts of the investigation and the comments received, the Commission searched the Orbis 
database for the NAICS code 325998 (All Other Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing). 
This is the same code used by both Cargill Agricola SA and Sucroal SA. As a result of this search, there was a far 
higher number of companies showing a reasonable level of profits in Colombia as compared to Brazil, showing that 
the availability of public financial data was also representative and reliable in Colombia. Furthermore, in order to 
narrow down the result of this search to those companies producing a product similar to citric acid, the 
Commission analysed in detail the activity and production of all the profitable Colombian companies. Using the 
description of their business activity available in Orbis, the Commission finally identified seven companies in 
Colombia producing products in a close category of products to citric acid. The SG&A and profit of those 
companies was considered reliable. By comparison, the Commission noted that in Brazil there were no companies 
in the same field of activity with publicly available 2019 financial data in Orbis.
(152) The Colombian companies identified by the Commission in this way matched the companies identified by the Union 
industry as suitable companies in the same general category and/or sector of the product under review. The Union 
industry suggested in addition to those seven companies four other companies in Colombia, for which, however, 
the financial data or activity description was not readily available in Orbis. Therefore those companies were not 
taken into account for establishing the SG&A and profit.
(153) Based on all the above elements, and in particular the available financial data and the representativeness of the 
import price for corn representing the major factor of production, the Commission therefore concluded that 
Colombia was the appropriate representative country for the calculation of the normal value in this investigation.
(154) Following disclosure, CCCMC and three cooperating exporting producers questioned the Commission’s choice of 
Colombia as an appropriate representative country. They repeated the aforementioned claim that the choice of 
Colombia was not reasonable given the fact that the sole Colombian citric acid producer was not profitable during 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/96                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
the review investigation period whereas a Brazilian producer was. They also repeated the aforementioned claim that 
corn prices in Brazil were not distorted. Given that these claims had already been addressed at recitals (136) 
and (149) of this Regulation and that no new evidence was provided in this regard, the claims were dismissed.
(155) The aforementiond parties further claimed that the Commission used SG&A and profitability data from Colombian 
companies in other product sectors without proving that these companies have the same level of SG&A and profit as 
the producers of citric acid.
(156) In line with Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, the normal value shall be constructed on the basis of costs of 
production and sale reflecting undistorted prices or benchmarks when the presence of significant distortions is 
confirmed. The constructed normal value shall include an undistorted and reasonable amount for SG&A and for 
profits. Given that the SG&A and profit of the Colombian company Sucroal SA could not be used for the reasons 
explained in recitals (145) and (147), the Commission used data for the closest sector including the product under 
investigation, where the aforementioned cost elements were considered undistorted and reasonable. No evidence 
has been provided to dispute this conclusion, and in particular that the level of SG&A and profits of the Colombian 
companies in the closest sector to citric acid were not reasonable according to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic 
Regulation.
(157) The Commission noted further that, contrary to the Union Industry, CCCMC and the cooperating exporting 
producers did not provide or suggest a list of manufacturers in the same potential representative country, 
manufacturing the same or similar category of goods or being in the same or similar manufacturing sector as the 
product under review, whose financial data the Commission could use.
(158) Therefore, and for the reasons set out in recital (151), the Commission considered the financial data from the seven 
companies that it identified in Colombia producing products in a close category of products to citric acid to be a 
reasonable proxy for undistorted SG&A and profit to be used in the construction of the normal value in the 
investigation. The claim from CCCMC and three cooperating exporting producers was therefore dismissed.
3.4. Sources used to establish undistorted costs
(159) On the basis of the information submitted by the interested parties and other relevant information available in the 
file, the Commission established a list of factors of production and sources such as materials, energy and labour 
used in the production of the product under review by the exporting producers.
(160) The Commission also identified the sources to be used in order to construct the normal value in accordance with 
Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation (GTA, national statistics, etc.). In the same note, the Commission identified 
the Harmonised System (HS) codes of factors of production which, based on information provided by the interested 
parties, were initially considered to be used for the GTA analysis.
(161) In the Note of 30 November 2020, the Commission confirmed that it would use GTA data to establish the 
undistorted cost of the factors of production, including raw materials.
3.5. Sources used for electricity, water and labour costs
3.5.1. Electricity
(162) For electricity, the Commission used the readily available price form Enel, the major electricity supplier in Colombia. 
This source provides a single average price of electricity per month.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/97  
3.5.2. Water
(163) The water tariff was readily available from the company Acueducto, which is responsible for water supply, sewage 
collection and treatment in Bogota. The information enabled the identification of tariffs applicable to industrial 
users in the review investigation period.
3.5.3. Labour
(164) The Commission used ILO statistics to determine the wages in Colombia (59). These provide information on monthly 
wages of employees in the manufacturing sector and average weekly hours worked in Colombia in 2019.
(165) The Commission received no comments on the sources used for establishing the undistorted cost of electricity, water 
and labour and therefore used those sources to establish the normal value.
3.6. Sources used for SG&A and profit
(166) According to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, the constructed normal value should include an undistorted 
and reasonable amount for SG&A and for profits. In addition, a value for manufacturing overhead costs had to be 
established to cover costs not included in the factors of production.
(167) In order to establish an undistorted value of SG&A and profits, the Commission used the proportion of the cost of 
manufacturing that SG&A and profits represent in the representative companies in Colombia as explained in 
Section 3.3.
(168) The resulting values expressed as a percentage of revenues amounted to 14,2 % for profit and 17 % for SG&A.
3.7. Raw materials
(169) For all raw materials and auxiliary materials, the Commission relied on import prices into the representative country. 
The import price into the representative country was determined as a weighted average of unit prices of imports 
from all third countries excluding China. The Commission decided to exclude imports from China into the 
representative country due to the existence of significant distortions in accordance with Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic 
Regulation. Given that there is no evidence showing that the same distortions do not equally affect products 
intended for export, the Commission considered that the same distortions affected these prices. Similarly, imports 
into the representative country from non-WTO members listed in Annex 1 of Regulation (EU) 2015/755 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council (60) were also excluded.
(170) In order to establish the undistorted price of raw materials, as provided by Article 2(6a)(a), first indent of the basic 
Regulation, the Commission applied the relevant import duties of the representative country. At a later stage, 
during the individual dumping margin calculations, the Commission added company specific domestic transport 
costs to the import price. The domestic transport costs for all raw materials were based on the verified data 
provided by the cooperating exporting producers.
(171) For raw materials with negligible impact in terms of costs, which the companies did not report in Annex III of the 
Notice of Initiation, such costs were included in the manufacturing overheads as explained in Section 3.8. The 
factors of production expressed as overheads are listed in the company-specific disclosures.
(59) https://www.ilo.org/ilostat/faces/oracle/webcenter/portalapp/pagehierarchy/Page21.jspx?_afrLoop=2007202804813928&_afrWin­
dowMode=0&_afrWindowId=ejmgka3iz_63#!%40%40%3F_afrWindowId%3Dejmgka3iz_63%26_afrLoop% 
3D2007202804813928%26_afrWindowMode%3D0%26_adf.ctrl-state%3Dejmgka3iz_119
(60) OJ L 123, 19.5.2015, p. 33. Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation considered that domestic prices in those countries cannot be used for 
the purpose of determining normal value and, in any event, such import data was negligible.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/98                                                                                                                                         
15.4.2021  
(172) The Union industry noted in its comments of 16 March 2020 that for some raw materials, either no average import 
values existed or that the average values concerned small quantities and were therefore unreliable or that other 
reasons existed which led to doubts about their reliability. They suggested that the values from statistics for the 
region or as published by market surveys from providers such as ArgusMedia, AgroChart or IntraTec should be 
used in these cases.
(173) The Union industry reiterated in its comments of 11 December 2020 that in the case of Colombia, the costs for the 
production figures could be determined with the data for imports and available public data for the prices of 
electricity, water and the public data on labour costs. They stressed that some of the average import values for less 
important cost factors appeared to be high and suggested that these be replaced with data from specialised data 
service providers.
(174) In its submission of 23 March 2020, CCCMC commented that some of the import prices for certain key materials 
like coal, sulphuric acid and hydrochloric acid in Colombia were abnormally high and therefore not representative. 
They also claimed that there were major differences between the disclosed import prices of Colombia, Thailand and 
Brazil and that import prices varied significantly even for the same material imported by the same country, which 
might be due to quality differences within the same HS code. CCCMC called on the Commission to identify the 
reason for these differences and to address them. The Commission considered this argument and, wherever 
justified, replaced unrepresentative import prices by reliable sources as detailed in Table A below.
(175) CCCMC also argued that since certain of the raw materials used for the production of the product under review are 
purchased domestically in China, it is unreasonable to simply use the import prices of a specific third country, as 
these latter prices are likely to include higher shipping/delivery costs than those of domestically purchased raw 
materials. This is especially the case for dangerous chemicals like sulphuric acid and hydrochloric acid for which 
special vehicles are used for delivery. Therefore CCCMC considered that due adjustments must be made to ensure a 
fair comparison.
(176) Concerning this argument, the Commission noted that, for the reasons set out in Section 3.2.1 above, it applies 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation in the present expiry review. Therefore, the Commission is looking for 
undistorted costs in an appropriate representative country to ensure that the applied cost is not affected by 
distortions and is based on readily available data. In the absence of any information of possible distortions on the 
market of the representative country with respect to those dangerous chemicals and in the absence of data provided 
by CCCMC to substantiate its claim concerning high transport costs, the import values of the representative country 
are considered to fulfil the criterions of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation and to provide a reasonable estimate of 
the price in the representative country, including the transport costs. Additionally, because the imported inputs 
compete on the domestic market of the representative country in terms of prices, the Commission considered them 
a reliable proxy.
(177) The Commission consequently used the GTA import prices into Colombia. Where those prices were not 
representative or otherwise unreliable, international benchmarks were sought. Where those were not available, 
reliable prices from other sources were used, as detailed in table A below.
(178) Considering all the information submitted by interested parties and collected during the remote cross-checks, the 
following factors of production and tariff codes used in Brazil, Colombia or Thailand, where applicable, have been 
identified:
Table A
Factor of production
Tariff Code
Source of import data that 
the Commission intends 
to use
Unit of 
measurement
Raw materials/Consumables
Corn
1005 90 11 00
GTA Colombia (61)
KG
Dried sweet potatoes
0714 20 90 00
GTA Colombia
KG
(61) Available at:http://www.gtis.com/gta/
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 129/99  
Factor of production
Tariff Code
Source of import data that 
the Commission intends 
to use
Unit of 
measurement
Sodium chloride/edible salt
2501 00 91 00/ 
2501 00 10 00, 
2501 00 20 00, 
2501 00 92 00, 
2501 00 99 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Sulphuric acid
2807 00 10
GTA Brazil
KG
Sulphur/liquid sulphur
2503 00 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Hydrochloric acid
2806 10 20
GTA Brazil
KG
Activated carbon
3802 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Limestone powder/flour
2521 00 00
GTA Brazil
KG
Defoamer
3402 20 00 00/ 
3402 90 90 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Diatomite
2512 00 00 00/ 
3802 90 10 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Perlite
2530 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Amylase
(Glucoamylase)/Saccharifying enzyme
3507 90 90 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Calcium
2805 12 00
GTA Brazil
KG
Caustic soda (Sodium hydroxide)
2815 11 00 00/ 
2815 12 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Liquid alkali
2815 12 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Hydrogen peroxide
2847 00 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Flour (wheat or meslin)
1101 00 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Wood flour
4405 00 00 00
GTA Colombia
M3
Calcium oxide
2825 90 40 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Quicklime
2522 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Bran from corn
2302 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Corn steep liquor
1901 90 10 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Calcium carbonate/Calcite
2836 50 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Activated clay
3802 90 10 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Filter aid (perlite)
2530 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Sodium diacetate
2915 29 20 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Citric acid
2918 14 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Sodium citrate
2918 15 30 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Corrosion and scale inhibitor
2921 59
GTA Brazil
KG
Raw coal/Slime
2701 19 00
GTA Brazil
KG
Diesel
2710 19 21 00
GTA Colombia
M3
Packing – Film bag
3923 29 90 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
Packing – Soft tray
3923 90 00 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
Packing – Pallet
4421 99 90 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/100                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
Factor of production
Tariff Code
Source of import data that 
the Commission intends 
to use
Unit of 
measurement
Packing – Paper box
4819 20 00 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
Packing – Paper bag
4819 30 10 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
Packing – Paper bag
4819 40 00 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
Packing – Woven bag
6305 33 10 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
Packing – Heavy film bag
3920 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
Piece
By-product/waste
Gas
2705 00 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
High protein scrap/Corn starch residue
2303 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Corn feed
2303 30 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Calcium sulphate
2833 29 90 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Other residual products of the chemical 
industries (Granular sludge)
3825 90 00
GTA Brazil
KG
Corn germ oil/Corn oil
1518 00 90 00/ 
1515 29 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Corn grits/Corn starch residue
2303 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Wheat gluten flour
1109 00 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Mycelium (animal feed preparation)
2309 90 90 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Germ of cereals
1104 30 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Calcite stone powder
2836 50 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Gypsum
2520 10 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Ash, slag
2621 90 00 00
GTA Colombia
KG
Corn germ oil extraction residue
2306 90 10/90
GTA Thailand
KG
Corn gluten meal/powder
2302 10 00 00
GTA Brazil
KG
Protein powder granules (corn residue)
2302 10 00 00
GTA Brazil
KG
Protein filter cake (corn residue)
2302 10 00 00
GTA Brazil
KG
Sprayed corn husk
2302 10 00 00
GTA Brazil
KG
3.8. Calculation of the Normal Value
(179) In order to establish the normal value, the Commission took the following steps.
(180) First, the Commission established the undistorted costs of manufacturing (covering the consumption of raw 
materials, labour and energy). It applied the undistorted unit costs based on the sources listed above to the actual 
consumption of the individual factors of production of the sampled exporting producers.
(181) Second, to arrive at the undistorted costs of production, the Commission added manufacturing overheads. 
Manufacturing overheads incurred by the cooperating exporting producers were increased by the costs of raw 
materials and auxiliary materials referred to in recital (171) and subsequently expressed as a share of the costs of 
manufacturing actually incurred by each of the exporting producers. This percentage was applied to the undistorted 
costs of manufacturing.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/101  
(182) Finally, the Commission applied the SG&A and the weighted average profit of seven representative Colombian 
producers of ingredients for the beverage, cleaning, food, health and pharmaceutical industry to the above 
calculation.
(183) When expressed as a percentage of the costs of manufacturing, these amount to 24,82 % for SG&A and 20,72 % for 
profit. When expressed as a percentage of revenues, the same amounts to 17 % for SG&A and 14,2 % for profit.
(184) On that basis, the Commission constructed the normal value per product type on an ex-works basis in accordance 
with Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation. The Commission constructed the normal value per product type for 
each of the four cooperating exporting producers.
3.9. Export price
(185) The cooperating exporting producers exported to the Union directly to independent customers. Therefore, the 
export price was the price actually paid or payable for the product under review when sold for export to the Union, 
in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation.
3.10. Comparison
(186) The Commission compared the normal value and the export price of the cooperating exporting producer on an 
ex-works basis.
(187) Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation. On this basis, allowances for transport, insurance, handling, loading and ancillary costs, packing, credit 
costs, bank charges and commissions have been made where applicable and justified.
3.11. Dumping margins for the cooperating exporting producers
(188) For the cooperating exporting producers, the Commission compared the weighted average normal value of each 
type of the like product with the weighted average export price of the corresponding type of the product under 
review, in accordance with Article 2(11) and (12) of the basic Regulation.
(189) On this basis, the weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty 
unpaid, are 42 % for Weifang Ensign Industry Co., Ltd and 144 % for COFCO Bio-Chemical Energy (Yushu) Co. Ltd. 
No dumping was calculated for RZBC Group (RZBC (Juxian) Co., Ltd. and related trader RZBC Imp. & Exp. Co., Ltd.), 
nor for Jiangsu Guoxin Union Energy Co. Ltd, which are subject to price undertakings as explained in recital (191).
3.12. Dumping margins for the non-cooperating exporting producers
(190) The Commission also established the average dumping margin for the non-cooperating exporting producers. On the 
basis of the facts available, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the highest dumping margin of the 
cooperating producers was used, not least given the significantly lower level of export prices by non-cooperating 
companies.
3.13. Conclusion on continuation of dumping
(191) Altogether, a majority of Chinese exports to the EU (between 70 to 90 %) were made at significantly dumped prices 
during the review investigation period. The remaining Chinese exports were made by the two cooperating exporting 
producers for which no dumping was established. These two exporting producers are subject to price undertakings 
and their exports to the Union were made at the minimum import price. Their export prices to the Union were thus 
considered to be influenced by the undertakings and therefore not reliable enough to be used for the determination 
whether dumping will continue in the context of this expiry review.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/102                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
(192) In sum, dumping has continued for the vast majority of Chinese exports to the Union. The Commission therefore 
concluded that dumping continued during the review investigation period.
4. LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OF DUMPING
(193) Further to the finding of the existence of dumping during the review investigation period, the Commission 
investigated the likelihood of continuation of dumping should the measures be repealed in accordance with Article 
11(2) of the basic Regulation. The following additional elements were analysed: the production capacity and spare 
capacity in the country concerned, the attractiveness of the Union market; the relation between export prices to 
third countries and the price level in the Union; and circumvention practices.
(194) As mentioned above, only four Chinese exporting producers came forward. Therefore, the information available to 
the Commission on production and spare capacity from Chinese exporting producers was limited.
(195) For this reason, most of the findings set out below concerning the continuation or the recurrence of dumping had to 
be based on other sources, namely Eurostat and GTA databases and the information submitted by the Union 
industry in the review request. The analysis of that information revealed the following.
4.1. Production capacity and spare capacity in the country concerned
(196) Based solely on the questionnaire replies of the cooperating exporting producers, the investigation revealed spare 
production capacities of around 129 000 tonnes, which accounts for 20 to 40 % of EU demand. In the RIP, total 
Chinese production capacity is estimated to be three to four times higher than the total EU consumption.
(197) Domestic Chinese demand was estimated to be around 465 000 tonnes – less than 24 % of the country’s production 
capacity. In addition, planned further increases in capacity indicate that the latter will reach the level of total world 
consumption in 2021 (62) – further exacerbating existing Chinese overcapacity. These new capacities will in all 
likelihood translate into even higher pressure to export, not least in view of the gap between capacity and the 
aforementioned levels of domestic demand. It is highly unlikely that Chinese domestic consumption would increase 
to the extent to be able to absorb existing capacity, let alone the increased one. In addition, the presence of measures 
already in place in a number of other markets makes it highly likely that there would be significant increase of 
dumped imports if the measures in the Union are repealed.
4.2. Attractiveness of the Union market
(198) The attractiveness of the Union market for Chinese exports was apparent given the continuing and massive presence 
even with measures – reaching 30 % to 50 % of the Union market share.
(199) The attractiveness of the Union market was further underlined by the fact that a Chinese investor is building a new 
plant with a capacity of up to 60 000 tonnes in the Union (63).
(200) In addition, Chinese exports to other important markets such as the US, Brazil, Colombia, India or Thailand were 
constrained by the existence of trade defence measures.
(201) The attractiveness of the Union market was further confirmed by the price elements hereunder.
4.3. Relation between export prices to third countries and the price level in the Union
(202) Export prices to third countries by the four cooperating companies were 20 to 40 % lower than the export prices to 
the Union, again underlining its attractiveness.
(62) The Commission made the information concerning level of capacities in China, together with source materials, available in the file for 
inspection by interested parties on 7 June 2020, save No t20.004035.
(63) China-CEE Institute: ‘China and Hungary: 70 years of bilateral relations in a changing world’, December 2019, p. 75.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/103  
4.4. Circumvention practices
(203) Circumvention practices via Malaysia, which led to the imposition of anti-circumvention duties in January 2016 
referred to in recital (5), further underlined the attractiveness of the Union market for Chinese exports.
4.5. Likely prices and dumping margins should measures be repealed
(204) As explained above, dumping has continued for a large majority of Chinese exports.
(205) In addition, all indications were that sales would take place at dumped levels should measures expire.
(206) First, the fact that all companies with undertakings sold precisely at the undertaking’s minimum import price, 
indicated that the undertaking was acting as a price floor. In the absence of such a floor, and faced with competition 
by other Chinese exports priced in the range of 30 to 40 % lower than those in the undertaking, firms would have to 
sell at that lower price range to stay in the market. This would in all likelihood lead to higher dumping margins for all 
companies subject to the undertaking.
(207) Second, circumvention could be considered as an additional factor indicating the exporters’ interest in entering the 
Union market and their inability to compete on the Union market at non-dumped levels. There was also a pattern 
of unfair pricing behaviour by Chinese firms when they export to other markets, as shown by high number of trade 
defence measures against citric acid in third countries mentioned in recital (200).
(208) Third, export prices to third countries by the four cooperating companies were much lower than those to the Union, 
indicating the likelihood of a further drop in export prices and thus of a further increase in dumping margins should 
measures expire.
4.6. Conclusion
(209) Should measures expire, the above analysis revealed the continuation of dumping and the strong likelihood of an 
increase in the dumping margins, with an even more prominent presence of imports into the attractive Union 
market.
(210) Following disclosure, CCCMC and three cooperating exporting producers questioned the findings on spare capacity. 
They claimed that based on the Commission’s own calculations spare capacities went down from 192 000 tonnes 
in 2015 (the previous review) to 129 000 tonnes in the RIP, thus contradicting the finding of ever-larger spare 
production capacity translating into higher pressure to export. The Commission noted that it assessed the spare 
capacities based on data from the cooperating exporting producers. These cooperating exporting producers are 
different from the cooperating exporting producers in the previous review. For this reason, the comparison by 
CCCMC and the three cooperating exporting producers is flawed. In any event, 129 000 tonnes still represent a 
massive overcapacity. The claim was therefore dismissed.
(211) Following disclosure, CCCMC and three cooperating exporting producers contended that the Commission had not 
verified the reliability and accuracy of claimed evidence on planned capacity increases submitted by the Union 
industry. The Commission noted that it has carefully reviewed the submissions of both the Union industry and 
CCCMC in this respect and its review has not brought to light any elements that might alter its findings as 
established in recital (197).
(212) Following disclosure, CCCMC and three cooperating exporting producers claimed that the conclusion of the 
Commission that export prices to the Union would drop to third country levels in the absence of new measures, is 
total speculation. They also claimed that the Commission had provided no quantification or analysis with regard to 
its conclusion that exports from the PRC would likely increase and occur at higher dumping margins in the absence 
of measures. Finally, they claimed that the Commission did not present a sound economic reasoning of why Chinese 
exporting producers would drop substantially their prices to the Union in the absence of renewed measures.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/104                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
(213) In response, the Commission noted that the investigation clearly established that dumping continues even based on 
export prices that are propped up by the MIP of the undertakings. Prices of exporting producers not subject to 
undertakings were significantly lower, clearly indicating that prices would be likely to drop in the absence of 
undertakings. In addition, the Commission found export prices to the Union to be significantly higher than export 
prices to other markets for all exporting producers subject to undertakings, indicating that the Union market would 
attract an increase in imports. These elements, together with the significant spare capacity in the PRC, clearly 
supported the finding that exports to the Union would likely continue to occur at dumped prices and at increased 
volumes if the measures were repealed.
5. INJURY
5.1. Definition of the Union industry and Union production
(214) The like product was manufactured by two producers in the Union during the RIP. The two producers constitute the 
‘Union industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation.
(215) With regard to the fact that only two producers constitute the Union industry, the Commission, presented some of 
the figures in this Regulation using ranges and/or indexes in accordance with Article 19 of the basic Regulation in 
order to protect confidential information.
(216) The total Union production during the review investigation period was established within the range of 300 000 to 
350 000 tonnes. The Commission established the figure on the basis of questionnaire replies of the two Union 
producers.
5.2. Union consumption
(217) The Commission established the free market Union consumption on the basis of the free market sales of the Union 
industry on the Union market and imports from the PRC and other third countries, as indicated in the 
questionnaire replies and import statistics based on 14(6) database.
(218) Free market union consumption developed as follows:
Table 1
Union consumption (tonnes) 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Total union consumption
500 000 - 
550 000
535 000 – 
585 000
535 000 – 
585 000
515 000 - 
565 000
Index
100
107
107
103
Source: Questionnaire replies and the 14(6) database
(219) The Union consumption initially increased by 7 %, with a peak of consumption in 2017 and 2018. Between 2018 
and the review investigation period, the consumption somewhat decreased, but remained 3 % higher than at the 
beginning of the period considered.
(220) The reason for the increase of consumption of citric acid was the increase in consumption of products using the 
product under review in various industries such as food, household detergents, pharmaceutical and cosmetics. In 
addition, the legislation requiring substitution of phosphates in household cleaning detergents added to the increase 
of consumption of the product under review, as citric acid is one of the more suitable substitute of phosphates in 
these applications.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/105  
5.3. Imports from the country concerned
5.3.1. Volume and market share of the imports from the country concerned
(221) The Commission established the volume of imports on the basis of the 14(6) database. The market share of the 
imports was established on the basis of the 14(6) database and questionnaire replies of the Union industry.
(222) Imports from the country concerned developed as follows:
Table 2
Import volume (tonnes) and market share 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Volume of imports from China
207 295
190 750
223 185
205 595
Index
100
92
108
99
Market share (%)
40 – 45
34 – 39
40 – 45
38 – 43
Index
100
86
100
96
Source: Questionnaire replies and the 14(6) database
(223) The volume of imports from China was significant throughout the period considered, remaining almost at the same 
level in the review investigation period compared to 2016. The lower imports in 2017 and higher imports of 2018 
are linked to the fact that citric acid is a product transported in large quantities, and such a large quantity entered the 
Union market in January 2018 and was hence attributed to the 2018 imports (imports of January 2018 are around 
50 % higher than December 2017). Overall, the import volumes from China were stable.
(224) The market share of imports of citric acid from China was significant and remained largely in the 40 % range, with a 
small decline of 1,4 percentage points over the period considered. As imports from other countries also declined, as 
described in recital (234) to (235), the Commission observed that the increased demand during the period 
considered was satisfied by the increase of production of the Union industry.
5.3.2. Prices of the imports from the country concerned and price undercutting
(225) The Commission established the prices of imports on the basis of the 14(6) database. The average price of imports 
from the country concerned developed as follows:
Table 3
Import prices (EUR/tonne) 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
China
736,7
773,8
738,2
701,9
Index
100
105
100
95
Source: 14(6) database
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/106                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
(226) The price of citric acid imported from China was stable during the period considered. Overall, the price of Chinese 
citric acid decreased by 5 % compared to 2016. Import prices from China remained substantially lower compared 
to Union prices, as reflected in Table 8.
(227) The increase of import prices in 2017 can be linked with the increase of consumption, which, as explained in recital 
(219), was particularly high in 2017, due to the legislative change described in recital (220) concerning phosphates. 
This increase of demand triggered an increase in import prices. Prices then fell back in 2018 and 2019 as demand 
adjusted.
(228) The Commission determined the price undercutting during the review investigation period by comparing:
(a) the weighted average sales prices per product type of the Union producers charged to unrelated customers on 
the Union market, adjusted to an ex-works level; and
(b) the corresponding weighted average prices per product type of the imports from the cooperating Chinese 
producers to the first independent customer on the Union market, established on a Cost, insurance, freight (CIF) 
basis, including the anti-dumping duty, with appropriate adjustments for customs duties and post-importation 
costs.
(229) Two levels of undercutting margins are shown below, the first covers the cooperating exporting producers not 
subject to the undertaking mentioned in recital (189). The second level also includes the three cooperators which 
were subject to the undertaking. A distinction is made because the prices of the companies subject to the 
undertaking were influenced by the terms of the undertaking.
(230) For non-cooperating exporting producers, price undercutting could not be established using prices per product type, 
as this information was not available. Therefore, price undercutting was established by comparing overall weighted 
average sales prices both for the Union producers and for the non-cooperating Chinese exporting producers.
(231) The price comparisons were made on a type-by-type basis for transactions at the same level of trade, duly adjusted 
where necessary, and after deduction of rebates and discounts. The results of the comparisons were expressed as a 
percentage of the Union producers’ turnover during the review investigation period. They showed a weighted 
average undercutting margin for exporting producers not subject to the undertakings of more than 19 %, and for 
exporting producers subject to the undertaking of more than 10 %.
5.4. Imports from third countries other than China
(232) The imports of citric acid from third countries other than China came mainly from Cambodia, Colombia and 
Thailand.
(233) The (aggregated) volume of imports as well as the market share and price trends for imports of citric acid from other 
third countries developed as follows:
Table 4
Imports from third countries 
Country
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Thailand
Volume (tonnes)
19 410
20 163
13 203
13 305
Index
100
104
68
69
Market share (%)
< 5
< 5
< 5
< 5
Average price (EUR)
817
887
847
784
Index
100
109
104
96
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/107  
Other third countries
Volume (tonnes)
10 331
18 612
7 909
7 194
Index
100
180
77
70
Market share (%)
< 5
< 5
< 5
< 5
Average price (EUR)
1 094
1 001
1 251
1 265
Index
100
92
114
116
Total of all third 
countries
Volume (tonnes)
29 741
38 775
21 112
20 500
Index
100
130
71
69
Market share (%)
5-10
5-10
< 5
< 5
Average price (EUR)
913
942
998
952
Index
100
103
109
104
Source: The 14(6) database
(234) The largest volumes of imports of citric acid from third countries other than China throughout the period 
considered came from Thailand. Imports from Thailand decreased by 31 % during the period considered. In every 
year of the period considered, the prices followed the trend of price evolution of Chinese imports, but were 11 % to 
15 % higher.
(235) Imports of citric acid from all third countries fell by 30 % over the period considered. Their prices were also higher 
compared to prices of imports from China.
5.5. Economic situation of the Union industry
5.5.1. General remarks
(236) The assessment of the economic situation of the Union industry included an evaluation of all economic indicators 
having a bearing on the state of the Union industry during the period considered.
5.5.2. Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation
(237) The total Union production, production capacity and capacity utilisation developed as follows over the period 
considered:
Table 5
Union production volume, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Production volume (tonnes)
300 000 – 
350 000
342 000 – 
392 000
339 000 – 
389 000
327 000 – 
377 000
Index
100
114
113
109
Production capacity (tonnes)
350 000 – 
400 000
381 000 – 
431 000
395 000 – 
445 000
395 000 – 
445 000
Index
100
109
113
113
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/108                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
Capacity utilisation (%)
90 – 100
90 – 100
90 – 100
87 – 97
Index
100
105
100
97
Source: Questionnaire replies
(238) The production volume increased by 9 % during the period considered and the peak of the production was reached 
in 2017 (when it was by 14 % higher than in 2016). The trend of production volume of the Union industry largely 
follows the trend of the Union consumption.
(239) Production capacity has increased steadily during the period considered and compared with 2016 it was by 13 % 
higher in the review investigation period.
(240) Capacity utilisation fluctuated during the period considered, reaching the lowest level during the review 
investigation period, at 3 % below the level of 2016.
5.5.3. Sales volume and market share
(241) The Union industry’s sales volume and market share developed as follows over the period considered:
Table 6
Union sales volume and market share 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Total sales volume on the Union market 
(tonnes)
250 000 – 
300 000
292 000 – 
342 000
280 000 – 
330 000
275 000 – 
325 000
Index
100
117
112
110
Captive market sales
0 – 5 000
0 – 5 000
0 – 5 000
0 – 5 000
Free market sales
245 000 – 
300 000
287 000 – 
342 000
275 000 – 
330 000
270 000 – 
325 000
Index
100
116
112
110
Market share of free market sales (%)
50 – 60
54 – 64
52 – 62
54 – 64
Index
100
109
104
107
Source: Questionnaire replies
(242) Captive market sales, linked mainly to the production of specialties and special salts which use citric acid as an input 
material, were at a small level of below 5 000 tonnes in each year of the period considered and therefore had no 
noticeable influence on the Union industry’s situation, including its market shares.
(243) The sales developed similarly to the trend of production and increased by 10 % during the period considered, being 
at the highest level in 2017.
(244) The market share of the Union industry was between 50 % and 64 % in each year of the period considered. It 
increased in the review investigation period by around 4 percentage points.
5.5.4. Employment and productivity
(245) Employment and productivity developed in the Union over the period considered as follows:
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/109  
Table 7
Employment and productivity in the Union 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Number of employees
600 – 650
624 – 674
642 – 692
642 – 792
Index
100
104
107
107
Productivity (unit/employee)
500 – 550
550 – 600
530 – 580
510 – 560
Index
100
110
106
102
Source: Questionnaire responses
(246) The number of employees expressed in full time equivalent increased by around 7 % during the period considered to 
reach a level of over 640 employees in the review investigation period.
(247) Productivity increased only slightly during the period considered by around 2 %. In this respect, the productivity is 
expressed as number of tonnes per number of employees (full time equivalents) during the year.
5.5.5. Magnitude of the dumping margin and recovery from past dumping
(248) The impact of the actual dumping margins on the Union industry was mitigated by the undertaking applicable to the 
price level of large Chinese exporting producers, which acted as a floor for the relevant Chinese export prices.
(249) It can therefore be concluded that the Union industry has recovered from the injury caused by the past dumping of 
Chinese exporting producers. During the period considered, the recovery process of the Union industry continued 
as demonstrated by a favourable trend of the main injury indicators.
5.5.6. Prices and factors affecting prices
(250) The weighted average unit sales prices of the Union producers to unrelated customers in the Union developed over 
the period considered as follows:
Table 8
Sales prices in the Union 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Average unit sales price on the free 
market (EUR/tonne)
1 000 – 1 100
980 – 1 080
1 010 – 1 110
1 010 – 1 110
Index
100
98
101
101
Unit cost of production (EUR/tonne)
800 – 900
760 – 860
824 – 924
840 – 940
Index
100
95
103
105
Source: Questionnaire responses
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/110                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
(251) The weighted average unit sales prices of the Union producers to unrelated customers in the Union was very stable 
and increased only by 1 % during the period considered.
(252) The unit cost of production fluctuated during the period considered to reach a 5 % higher level in the review 
investigation period compared to 2016. The increase of costs combined with only a small increase in sales prices 
resulted in a decrease of profitability, as described in recital (257).
5.5.7. Labour costs
(253) The average labour costs of the Union producers developed as follows over the period considered:
Table 9
Average labour costs per employee 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Average labour costs per employee 
(EUR)
70 000 – 
80 000
70 000 – 
80 000
71 400 – 
81 400
72 800 – 82 800
Index
100
100
102
104
Source: Questionnaire responses
(254) The average labour costs of the Union producers increased by 4 % during the period considered, lower than the 
inflation in the Union during this period.
5.5.8. Inventories
(255) Stock levels of the Union producers developed over the period considered as follows:
Table 10
Inventories 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Closing stocks (tonnes)
20 000 – 
25 000
16 200 – 
21 200
24 400 – 
39 400
24 000 – 28 000
Index
100
81
122
120
Closing stocks as a percentage of 
production (%)
5 – 10
3 – 8
5 – 10
5 – 11
Index
100
71
107
110
Source: Questionnaire responses
(256) The closing stocks of the Union producers increased during the period considered. The level of inventories is at a 
stable level following the increased sales and production. The much lower level of stock was the exception for the 
year-end 2017. The exception is linked with the increased demand for citric acid due to the replacement of 
phosphates in the chemical composition of certain products, as explained in recital (220).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/111  
5.5.9. Profitability, cash flow, investments, return on investments and ability to raise capital
(257) Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments of the Union producers developed over the period 
considered as follows:
Table 11
Profitability, cash flow, investments and return on investments 
2016
2017
2018
Review 
investigation 
period
Profitability of sales in the Union to 
unrelated customers (% of sales 
turnover)
15 – 20
18 – 23
14 – 19
11 – 16
Index
100
120
94
79
Cash flow Index
100
140
100
102
Investments (EUR)
40 000 000 – 
50 000 000
35 600 000 – 
45 600 000
31 200 000 – 
41 200 000
39 600 000 – 
49 600 000
Index
100
89
78
99
Return on investments (%)
30 – 40
37 – 48
27 – 38
26 – 36
Index
100
125
92
86
Source: Questionnaire responses
(258) The Commission established the profitability of the Union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales 
of the like product to unrelated customers in the Union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales.
(259) The profitability during the period considered was at the highest level in 2017. The exceptional circumstances were 
linked to the replacement of phosphates, as described in recital (220) and higher profitability in that year should be 
linked with increased demand in that specific year. Overall profitability of the industry in the review investigation 
period was above 10 %.
(260) The net cash flow is the ability of the Union producers to self-finance their activities. Its development remained at 
similar levels throughout the period considered, except in the year 2017.
(261) The return on investments is the profit as a percentage of the net book value of investments. Its development was 
similar to the development of profitability, and remained at satisfactory levels throughout the period considered.
(262) None of the Union producers reported difficulties in raising capital during the period considered.
5.6. Conclusion on injury
(263) Most injury indicators such as production, sales volume, employment, capacity, productivity and cash flow 
developed positively. While the trend of the financial indicators such as profitability and return of investments is 
negative, their absolute levels are satisfactory and do not indicate a sign of material injury.
(264) Therefore, the Commission concluded that the Union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of 
Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation during the review investigation period.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/112                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
6. LIKELIHOOD OF RECURRENCE OF INJURY
6.1. General remarks
(265) The Commission concluded in recital (262) that the Union industry did not suffer material injury during the period 
considered, and assessed, in accordance with Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation, whether there would be a 
likelihood of recurrence of injury originally caused by the dumped imports from China if the measures against 
Chinese imports were allowed to lapse (64).
(266) The above trends concerning prices and volumes of imports of the product under review from China show that 
while the Chinese exporters maintained a sizeable presence on the Union market, the measures in force (duty and 
undertakings) have led to an improvement in market conditions. The Union industry was the main beneficiary of 
this development, as the market presence of other third countries remained limited. This indicates that the removal 
of injury is mainly due to the existence of the measures in force.
(267) As mentioned in recitals (196) to (197), exporting producers in the PRC have massive and increasing spare capacity 
enabling them to increase their exports very rapidly. In addition, given the more lucrative prices on the Union 
market compared to most third country markets, it is likely that significant quantities currently exported to these 
countries could also be redirected to the Union market should the anti-dumping measures be allowed to lapse.
(268) In addition, major international markets have trade defence measures against Chinese citric acid. It will therefore be 
more difficult for the Chinese exporting producers to sell in those markets than into an unprotected Union market 
should the anti-dumping measures be allowed to lapse.
(269) In addition, the price levels of the Chinese exporters undercut Union industry’s prices significantly even with 
measures in place. Without duties, undercutting by exporting producers without undertakings would be in excess 
of 29 %. The foregoing shows the price levels at which Chinese exporting producers would likely enter the Union 
market in the absence of measures. Without the measures in place, the Union industry would not be able to 
maintain its prices, likely incurring into losses like in the original investigation.
(270) The likelihood of low-priced Chinese exports in the absence of measures is also confirmed by the numerous anti- 
dumping investigations on Chinese citric acid in other countries mentioned in recital (200).
(271) The combination of the high export capacity of Chinese producers and injurious prices would directly lead to a rapid 
loss of Union industry sales and/or drop in its prices, whose effect would lead to a deep financial deterioration, 
jeopardising the Union industry’s survival – as shown by the shutdown of other Union producers, mentioned in 
recital (276).
(272) Following disclosure, CCCMC and three cooperating exporting producers commented with regard to likelihood of 
recurrence of injury that increased imports at lower prices would not make commercial or market sense, should the 
measures expire. In addition, CCCMC also claimed that trade defence measures in other countries would not have 
significant impact on decision-making of exporting producers from China. These claims were neither substantiated 
nor did they demonstrate in any way that the wide array of substantive elements and reasoning mentioned above 
were incorrect. Moreover, the Commission observed that import prices without duties, as shown in Table 3 are 
already well below the Union industry’s costs of production (as shown in Table 11). Consequently, even maintaining 
such low import prices would put pressure on the Union industry which would likely materialise in injury again. 
Therefore, these claims cannot be accepted.
(64) See Appellate Body Report, United States – Anti-Dumping Measures on Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) from Mexico (WT/DS282/AB/ 
R), paras. 108 and 122 – 123.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/113  
(273) Therefore, it is concluded that the absence of measures would in all likelihood result in a significant increase of 
dumped imports from China at injurious prices and material injury would be likely to recur.
7. UNION INTEREST
(274) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether maintaining the existing 
anti-dumping measures would be against the interest of the Union as whole. The determination of the Union 
interest was based on an appreciation of all the various interests involved, including those of the Union industry, 
importers and users.
7.1. Interest of the Union industry
(275) Both Union producers accounting together for 100 % of Union production cooperated in this investigation. As 
stated in recital (263), Union industry has recovered from the injury caused by past dumping and their operations 
are viable when not subject to unfair competition by dumped imports.
(276) The Union industry was following the increased demand for citric acid, including investments needed to increase 
their production capacity and plans to expand it further.
(277) At the same time, removal of the measures would very likely lead to increased unfair competition by dumped 
Chinese imports, threatening the continued operation of the remaining producers in an otherwise viable industry. It 
is recalled that three producers in the Union had closed down before the imposition of measures against the Chinese 
imports.
(278) The Commission therefore concluded that it is in the interest of the Union industry to maintain the measures in 
force.
7.2. Interest of unrelated importers
(279) As stated in recital (18), only one unrelated importer submitted a questionnaire reply. Therefore there was not much 
interest among importers in the current investigation.
(280) Importers of citric acid are often traders of a wider range of chemical products and are thus not limited to citric acid. 
Furthermore, the traders import chemical products from other third countries apart from China, and also trade in 
products produced by the Union industry. Therefore, the potential impact of maintaining the duties on importers is 
expected to be very limited.
7.3. Interest of users
(281) As set out in recital (23), the Commission received questionnaire replies from four users from the health, beauty and 
home hygiene industry. In spite of the food and beverage industry constituting the biggest user of citric acid, no user 
from that industry cooperated in the investigation.
(282) For most users, citric acid accounts for a small or even negligible part of their costs structure. In some specific type of 
products, in particular in the area of home hygiene products such as dishwasher tablets, the content of citric acid is 
much higher.
(283) In their comments, the cooperating users claimed that the Union industry is fully recovered, and indicated that it is 
not able to fully meet the demand in the Union. The comments also mentioned that, especially for products with 
exceptionally high content of citric acid, the production of these products in the Union is less competitive 
compared with countries where citric acid is not subject to duties. Users also pointed to the good financial situation 
of the Union producers.
(284) The existing measures have not affected the availability of citric acid from non-Union sources, as the continuing 
sizeable presence of Chinese exports confirms. Increases in production capacity are planned in the Union, both by 
the Union producers and by the Chinese investment in the Union referred to in recital (199).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/114                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
(285) The profitability of cooperating users was high, and for the vast majority of users the financial impact of cost of citric 
acid as a raw material was negligible. For the users involved in production of the type of products containing higher 
content of citric acid, those products were only a part of a much wider portfolio. During the previous expiry review, 
when more users cooperated in the investigation, the Commission established that citric acid accounts for no more 
than 5 % of raw material costs of users producing chemical products. Therefore, the effect of the measures on these 
users was considered to be limited.
(286) On balance, the positive effect of the measures on the Union industry by far outweighed the limited negative impact 
of the measures in force on the users.
7.4. Other factors – security of sources of supply
(287) Security of supply is an important element of the market of citric acid. For the majority of applications of citric acid, 
the price factor was negligible, whereas availability of the product under review as a raw material was crucial. In the 
absence of measures, the survival of the Union industry would be in jeopardy, with effects beyond industry itself, e. 
g., reduction in available sources of supply or reduction of competitors in the market.
7.5. Conclusion on Union interest
(288) On the basis of the above, the Commission concluded that there were no compelling reasons of Union interest 
against the maintenance of the existing measures on imports of citric acid originating in China.
8. ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES
(289) On the basis of the conclusions reached by the Commission on recurrence of dumping, recurrence of injury and 
Union interest, the anti-dumping measures on citric acid from China should be maintained.
(290) In light of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (‘UK’) from the European 
Union, effective from 1 January 2021, the Commission also analysed the impact of such a withdrawal on the 
conclusions of this expiry review.
(291) In this respect, the Commission noted that the share of the total imports of citric acid into the UK out of the total 
imports on an EU-28 basis was less than 10 % throughout the period considered (source: 14.6 Database). Neither 
the attractiveness of the Union market nor the price level of imports of the product concerned in the Union would 
be affected by the reduction of the internal market to EU-27.
(292) Sales by the two sole Union producers to the UK were in the same order of magnitude.
(293) For the two Chinese exporting producers where the dumping margin was calculated as explained in recital (189), 
removing export sales to the UK for the purposes of calculating a dumping margin would not have an impact of 
more than 1 percentage point. As a corollary dumping margins for non-cooperating producers would also not 
change.
(294) Therefore, the Commission concluded that the results of this investigation leading to the maintenance of the anti- 
dumping measures would not vary, regardless of whether UK is considered for the analysis or not. No comments 
were made on this point by any interested party.
(295) All interested parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to 
recommend that the existing measures be maintained. They were also granted a period to make representations 
subsequent to this disclosure.
(296) In view of Article 109 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council (65), 
when an amount is to be reimbursed following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the 
interest to be paid should be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, 
as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union on the first calendar day of each month.
(65) OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/115  
(297) The measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by 
Article 15(1) Regulation (EU) 2016/1036,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is imposed on imports of citric acid and trisodium citrate dihydrate, currently falling 
under CN codes 2918 14 00 and ex 2918 15 00 (TARIC code 2918 15 00 11 and 2918 15 00 19) and originating in the 
People’s Republic of China.
2.
The rates of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price, before duty, of the 
product described in paragraph 1 and produced by the companies listed below shall be as follows:
Company
Definitive anti-dumping duty 
(%)
TARIC additional code
COFCO Bio-Chemical Energy (Yushu) Co. Ltd – No 1 
Dongfeng Avenue, Wukeshu Economic Development Zone, 
Changchun City 130401, PRC
35,7
A874
Laiwu Taihe Biochemistry Co., Ltd. – No 89, Changjiang 
Street, Laiwu City, Shandong Province, PRC
15,3
A880
RZBC Co., Ltd. – No 9 Xinghai West Road, Rizhao City, 
Shandong Province, PRC
36,8
A876
RZBC (Juxian) Co., Ltd. – No 209 Laiyang Road, Juxian 
Economic Development Zone, Rizhao City, Shandong 
Province, PRC
36,8
A877
TTCA Co., Ltd. – West, Wenhe Bridge North, Anqiu City, 
Shandong Province, PRC
42,7
A878
Weifang Ensign Industry Co., Ltd. – No 1567 Changsheng 
Street, Changle, Weifang, Shandong Province, PRC
33,8
A882
Jiangsu Guoxin Union Energy Co., Ltd. – No 1 Redian Road, 
Yixing Economic Development Zone, Jiangsu Province, PRC
32,6
A879
All other companies
42,7
A999
3.
The definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to imports originating in the People’s Republic of China, as set out in 
paragraph 2, is hereby extended to imports of the same citric acid and trisodium citrate dihydrate consigned from 
Malaysia, whether declared as originating in Malaysia or not (CN codes ex 2918 14 00 (TARIC code 2918 14 00 10) and 
ex 2918 15 00 (TARIC code 2918 15 00 11).
4.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be 
conditional upon presentation to the Member States’ customs authorities of a valid commercial invoice, on which shall 
appear a declaration dated and signed by an official of the entity issuing such invoice, identified by his/her name and 
function, drafted as follows: ‘I, the undersigned, certify that the (volume) of (product under review) sold for export to the European 
Union covered by this invoice was manufactured by (company name and address) (TARIC additional code) in [country concerned]. I 
declare that the information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.’ If no such invoice is presented, the duty applicable to 
all other companies shall apply.
5.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/116                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
Article 2
1.
Imports declared for release into free circulation which are invoiced by companies from which undertakings are 
accepted by the Commission and whose names are listed in Decision 2008/899/EC, further amended by Decision 
2012/501/EU and Regulation (EU) 2016/704, shall be exempt from the anti-dumping duty imposed by Article 1, on 
condition that:
(a) they are manufactured, shipped and invoiced directly by the said companies to the first independent customer in the 
Union; and
(b) such imports are accompanied by an undertaking invoice which is a commercial invoice containing at least the 
elements and the declaration stipulated in the Annex to this Regulation; and
(c) the goods declared and presented to customs correspond precisely to the description on the undertaking invoice.
2.
A customs debt shall be incurred at the time of acceptance of the declaration for release into free circulation:
(a) whenever it is established, in respect of imports described in paragraph 1, that one or more of the conditions listed in 
that paragraph are not fulfilled; or
(b) when the Commission withdraws its acceptance of the undertaking pursuant to Article 8(9) of Council Regulation (EC) 
No 1225/2009 (66) in a Regulation or Decision which refers to particular transactions and declares the relevant 
undertaking invoices as invalid.
Article 3
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 14 April 2021.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
(66) OJ L 343, 22.12.2009, p. 51..
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
15.4.2021                                                                                                                                        
L 129/117  
ANNEX 
The following elements shall be indicated in the commercial invoice accompanying the companies’ sales to the European 
Union of goods, which are subject to the undertaking:
1. The heading ‘COMMERCIAL INVOICE ACCOMPANYING GOODS SUBJECT TO AN UNDERTAKING’.
2. The name of the company issuing the commercial invoice.
3. The commercial invoice number.
4. The date of issue of the commercial invoice.
5. The TARIC additional code under which the goods on the invoice are to be customs-cleared at the European Union 
border.
6. The exact description of the goods, including:
— the product code number (PCN) used for the purpose of the undertaking,
— plain language description of the goods corresponding to the PCN concerned,
— the company product code number (CPC),
— TARIC code,
— quantity (to be given in tonnes).
7. The description of the terms of the sale, including:
— price per tonne,
— the applicable payment terms,
— the applicable delivery terms,
— total discounts and rebates.
8. Name of the company acting as an importer in the European Union to which the commercial invoice accompanying the 
goods subject to an undertaking is issued directly by the company.
9. The name of the official of the company that has issued the commercial invoice and the following signed declaration:
‘I, the undersigned, certify that the sale for direct export to the European Union of the goods covered by this invoice is 
being made within the scope and under the terms of the Undertaking offered by (COMPANY), and accepted by the 
European Commission through Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/87. I declare that the information provided in this 
invoice is complete and correct.’
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 129/118                                                                                                                                       
15.4.2021  
