COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2023/453 
of 2 March 2023
extending the definitive anti-dumping duty imposed by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141 on 
imports of certain stainless steel tube and pipe buttwelding fittings, whether or not finished, 
originating in the People’s Republic of China to imports of certain stainless steel tube and pipe butt- 
welding fittings, whether or not finished, consigned from Malaysia, whether declared as originating 
in Malaysia or not 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection 
against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1) (‘the basic Regulation’), and in particular 
Article 13 thereof,
Whereas:
1. PROCEDURE
1.1. Existing measures
(1)
In January 2017, the European Commission (‘the Commission’) imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports 
of certain stainless steel tube and pipe butt-welding fittings (‘SSTPF’ or ‘fittings’) originating in the People’s Republic 
of China (‘the PRC’ or ‘China’) and Taiwan by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141 (2), as amended 
by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/659 (3). The anti-dumping duties in force range between 
30,7 % and 64,9 % for imports originating in the PRC, and between 5,1 % to 12,1 % for imports originating in 
Taiwan. The investigation that led to these duties was initiated in October 2015 (‘the original investigation’) (4).
(2)
In January 2022, the Commission initiated an expiry review of the existing measures in accordance with 
Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation by publishing a notice in the Official Journal of the European Union (5). This 
review is still on-going.
1.2. Request
(3)
The Commission received a request pursuant to Articles 13(3) and 14(5) of the basic Regulation to investigate the 
possible circumvention of the anti-dumping measures imposed on imports of SSTPF originating in China by 
imports of SSTPF consigned from Malaysia, whether declared as originating in Malaysia or not, and to make such 
imports subject to registration (‘the request’).
(4)
The request was lodged on 25 April 2022 by the Defence Committee of the Stainless steel butt-welding Fittings 
industry of the European Union (‘the applicant’).
(5)
The request contained sufficient evidence of a change in the pattern of trade involving exports from China and 
Malaysia to the Union that had taken place following the imposition of measures on SSTPF originating in China.
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21.
(2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141 of 26 January 2017 imposing definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of 
certain stainless steel tube and pipe butt-welding fittings, whether or not finished, originating in the People’s Republic of China and 
Taiwan (OJ L 22, 27.1.2017, p. 14).
(3) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/659 of 6 April 2017 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141 imposing 
definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of certain stainless steel tube and pipe butt-welding fittings, whether or not finished, 
originating in the People's Republic of China and Taiwan (OJ L 94, 7.4.2017, p. 9).
(4) Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain stainless steel tube and pipe butt-welding fittings, 
whether or not finished, originating in the People's Republic of China and Taiwan (OJ C 357, 29.10.2015, p. 5).
(5) Notice of initiation of an expiry review of the anti-dumping measures applicable to imports of certain stainless steel tube and pipe butt- 
welding fittings, whether or not finished, originating in the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan (OJ C 40, 26.1.2022, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/19  
(6)
Moreover, the request provided evidence showing that it is unlikely that this change stems from a practice, process or 
work for which there is sufficient due cause or economic justification other than the imposition of the duty. Indeed, 
the applicant claimed that genuine production of the product under investigation in Malaysia was limited to only 
two producers whose combined exports to the Union had been consistently much lower than the volumes of the 
product under investigation exported from Malaysia to the Union since the imposition of measures on the product 
concerned. According to the evidence provided by the applicant, the change appeared to stem from the 
transhipment of the product concerned originating in the PRC via Malaysia to the Union. The applicant submitted 
evidence putting in doubt the existence of actual production facilities of Chinese-owned companies in Malaysia. In 
addition, the applicant provided evidence that Chinese producers were openly proposing to change the origin of the 
product concerned from Chinese to Malaysian.
(7)
Furthermore, the request contained sufficient evidence showing that the practice, process or work was undermining 
the remedial effects of the existing anti-dumping measures in terms of quantities and prices. Significant volumes of 
imports of the product under investigation appeared to have entered the Union market. In addition, there was 
sufficient evidence that such imports of SSTPF were made at injurious prices.
(8)
Finally, the request contained sufficient evidence that SSTPF consigned from Malaysia were exported at dumped 
prices in relation to the normal value previously established for SSTPF originating in China.
1.3. Product concerned and product under investigation
(9)
The product concerned by the possible circumvention is tube and pipe butt-welding fittings, of austenitic stainless 
steel grades, corresponding to AISI types 304, 304L, 316, 316L, 316Ti, 321 and 321H and their equivalent in the 
other norms, with a greatest external diameter not exceeding 406,4 mm and a wall thickness of 16 mm or less, 
with a roughness average (Ra) of the internal surface not less than 0,8 micrometres, not flanged, whether or not 
finished, classified on the date of entry into force of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141 under CN codes 
ex 7307 23 10 and ex 7307 23 90 (TARIC codes 7307 23 10 15, 7307 23 10 25, 7307 23 90 15, 7307 23 90 25) 
and originating in the PRC (‘the product concerned’). This is the product to which the measures that are currently in 
force apply.
(10)
The product under investigation is the same as that defined in the previous recital, but consigned from Malaysia, 
whether declared as originating in Malaysia or not, currently falling under the same CN codes as the product 
concerned (TARIC codes 7307 23 10 35, 7307 23 10 40, 7307 23 90 35, 7307 23 90 40) (‘the product under 
investigation’).
(11)
The investigation showed that SSTPF exported from China to the Union and SSTPF consigned from Malaysia, 
whether originating in Malaysia or not, have the same basic physical and chemical characteristics and have the same 
uses, and are therefore considered as like products within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the basic Regulation.
(12)
Pantech Steel Industries Sdn. Bhd (‘PSI’), one of the companies of the Pantech Group, contacted the Commission to 
make sure that one of their product types – high frequency long bends – is not included in the original product 
definition. Upon analysis of the provided description of the product and consultation with the applicant, the 
Commission confirmed that high frequency long bends were not included in the original product definition.
(13)
Paul Meijering Metalen B.V. (PMM B.V.), a Union importer, disagreed with the product scope of the investigation. It 
submitted comments on this regard and also on initiation and requested a hearing with the Commission services. 
The hearing was held on 7 July 2022. At the hearing, the Commission explained that the purpose of this 
investigation was to determine whether there is circumvention via Malaysia. There was no legal basis to revise the 
scope of the measures in the context of this investigation. The product scope was established in the original 
investigation that showed that all fittings within the product definition are like products.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/20 
3.3.2023  
1.4. Initiation
(14)
Having determined, after having informed the Member States, that sufficient evidence existed for the initiation of an 
investigation pursuant to Article 13(3) of the basic Regulation, the Commission initiated the investigation and made 
imports of SSTPF consigned from Malaysia, whether declared as originating in Malaysia or not, subject to 
registration, by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/894 (6) (‘the initiating Regulation’) on 8 June 
2022.
(15)
The initiating Regulation stated that, should circumvention practices covered by Article 13 of the basic Regulation, 
other than the one mentioned in recital (7) thereof, be identified in the course of the investigation, the investigation 
may also cover these practices.
1.5. Comments on initiation
(16)
PMM B.V. pointed out that there was a discrepancy between the exports from Malaysia to the Union for year 2017, 
and the corresponding imports into the Union from Malaysia in the request. It also disagreed with the applicant’s 
allegation that the only explanation for the difference between exports from China to Malaysia and the exports 
from Malaysia to the Union was transhipment. Finally, it pointed to missing references in the request.
(17)
At the hearing mentioned in recital (13), the Commission explained that it carried out its examination of the request 
in accordance with Article 13(3) of the basic Regulation and came to the conclusion that the requirements for 
initiation of an investigation were met, i.e. that there was sufficient evidence to initiate the investigation. According 
to Article 13(3) of the basic Regulation, a request shall contain such information as is reasonably available to the 
applicant. The legal standard of evidence required for the purpose of initiating an investigation (‘sufficient’ evidence) 
is different from that which is necessary for the purpose of final determination of the existence of circumvention.
(18)
The difference in the statistics for 2017, or the allegations of transhipment based on the difference in statistics 
between the PRC and Malaysia, did not change the fact that the request showed a clear change in the pattern of 
trade between the PRC, Malaysia and the Union. The applicant also provided evidence of transhipment practices.
(19)
The Commission however explained that the purpose of the investigation is to uncover whether the change in the 
pattern of trade, including that between China and Malaysia, is due to practices that constitute circumvention 
according to Article 13 of the basic Regulation, and not limited to transhipment.
(20)
In view of the above, the request contained sufficient evidence regarding the factors set out in Article 13(1) of the 
basic Regulation to warrant the initiation of the investigation in accordance with Article 13(3).
1.6. Investigation period and reporting period
(21)
The investigation period covered the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021 (‘the investigation period’ 
or ‘IP’). Data were collected for the investigation period to investigate, inter alia, the alleged change in the pattern of 
trade following the imposition of measures on the product concerned, and the existence of a practice, process or 
work for which there was insufficient due cause or economic justification other than the imposition of the duty. 
More detailed data were collected for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 (‘the reporting period’ 
or ‘RP’) in order to examine if imports were undermining the remedial effect of the measures in force in terms of 
prices and/or quantities and the existence of dumping.
(6) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/894 of 7 June 2022 initiating an investigation concerning possible circumvention of 
the anti-dumping measures imposed by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141 on imports of certain stainless steel tube and pipe 
butt- welding fittings, whether or not finished, originating in the People’s Republic of China by imports of certain stainless steel tube 
and pipe butt-welding fittings, whether or not finished, consigned from Malaysia, whether declared as originating in Malaysia or not, 
and making such imports subject to registration (OJ L 155, 8.6.2022, p. 36).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/21  
1.7. Investigation
(22)
The Commission officially informed the authorities of China and Malaysia, the known exporting producers in those 
countries, the Union industry and the known importers in the Union of the initiation of the investigation.
(23)
In addition, the Commission asked the Mission of Malaysia to the European Union to provide it with the names and 
addresses of exporting producers and/or representative associations that could be interested in cooperating in the 
investigation in addition to the Malaysian exporting producers which had been identified in the request by the 
applicant. The mission of Malaysia provided a list to the Commission. The Commission contacted all companies at 
initiation.
(24)
Exemption claim forms for the producers/exporters in Malaysia, questionnaires for the producers/exporters in 
China, and for importers in the Union were made available on DG TRADE’s website.
(25)
Four Malaysian exporting producers submitted exemption claim forms. These were:
— MAC Pipping Materials Sdn. Bhd (‘MAC’)
— Pantech Stainless And Alloy Industries Sdn. Bhd (‘Pantech’)
— SP United Industry Sdn. Bhd (‘SPI’)
— TP Inox Sdn. Bhd (‘TP’)
(26)
In addition, four Malaysian companies, related to Pantech or SPI, submitted questionnaire replies.
(27)
Moreover, questionnaire replies were submitted by 6 Union importers. One of those companies did not import 
SSTPF from Malaysia so its reply was not analysed further. The Commission used the questionnaire replies of 
importers to cross check the trade flows and names of suppliers from Malaysia.
(28)
In the process of verification of information and statistics provided by the applicant and the cooperating Malaysian 
companies, the Commission held on spot consultations with Malaysian Authorities, namely with the Ministry of 
Trade and Industry, Royal Customs, Ministry of Finance and representatives of Klang and Penang Free Trade Zones.
(29)
Furthermore, pursuant to Article 16 of the basic Regulation, the Commission carried out verification visits at the 
premises of the following companies:
Exporting producers in Malaysia
— MAC Pipping Materials Sdn. Bhd, Klang, Malaysia
— Pantech Stainless and Alloy Industries Sdn. Bhd, Jahor, Malaysia
— SP United Industry Sdn. Bhd, Nilai, Malaysia
— TP Inox Sdn. Bhd, Pulau Pinang, Malaysia
Traders, importers and raw material suppliers related to the exporting producers in Malaysia
— Kanzen Tetsu Sdn. Bhd, Klang, Malaysia
— Kentzu Steel Sdn. Bhd., Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
— Pantech Corporation Sdn. Bhd, Jahor, Malaysia
— Pantech Galvanizing Sdn. Bhd, Jahor, Malaysia
(30)
The Commission carried out remote crosschecks of the following companies:
Domestic traders related to producers in Malaysia
— Pantech (Kuantan) Sdn. Bhd, Kuantan, Malaysia
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/22 
3.3.2023  
— Panaflo Controls Pte. Ltd, Singapore
(31)
Interested parties were given the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing within 
the time limit set in the initiating Regulation. All parties were informed that the non-submission of all relevant 
information or the submission of incomplete, false or misleading information might lead to the application of 
Article 18 of the basic Regulation and to findings being based on the facts available.
(32)
A hearing was held on 7 July 2022 with the Union importer PMM B.V., as explained in recitals (13) and (16) to (19). 
Following disclosure, hearings with MAC and PMM B.V. were held on 8 and 12 December 2022 respectively.
2. RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION
2.1. General considerations
(33)
In accordance with Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation, the following elements should be analysed in order to 
assess possible circumvention:
— whether there was a change in the pattern of trade between the PRC/Malaysia and the Union,
— if this change stemmed from a practice, process or work for which there was insufficient due cause or economic 
justification other than the imposition of the anti-dumping measures in force,
— if there is evidence of injury or the remedial effects of the anti-dumping measures in force were being 
undermined in terms of the prices and/or quantities of the product under investigation, and
— whether there is evidence of dumping in relation to the normal values previously established for the product 
concerned.
(34)
The request alleged transhipment of the product concerned from Malaysia to the Union (see recital (6)).
(35)
With regard to transhipment, the investigation did not find evidence that any of the four co-operating exporting 
producers, which accounted for the entirety of the exports to the Union in the RP (see recital (39) below), were 
involved in such practices. The Commission compared data reported by the four cooperating companies with 
statistics, which showed that they made up for the vast majority of exports of SSTPF to the Union for most of the 
investigation period and the totality of those exports in the reporting period. The investigation established that 
none of the four companies was involved in transhipment. Their purchases of SSTPF from the PRC were minimal 
and were sold domestically in Malaysia. Therefore, this allegation could not be confirmed by this investigation.
(36)
However, as mentioned in recital (5), the request contained sufficient evidence of a change in the pattern of trade 
involving exports from China and Malaysia to the Union that had taken place following the imposition of measures 
on SSTPF originating in China. Concretely, the request provided evidence, based on official statistics, of an increase 
of imports of SSTPF from Malaysia in the Union and a parallel increase of imports of SSTPF from China into 
Malaysia (7), constituting a change in the pattern of trade as required by Article 13 of the basic Regulation. 
Moreover, as noted in recital (6), the request provided evidence showing that, based on what is known about the 
genuine production in Malaysia, it is unlikely that this change stems from a practice, process or work for which 
there is sufficient due cause or economic justification other than the imposition of the duty. According to the 
request, the change stemmed from transhipment, and this allegation was backed by sufficient evidence, concretely 
offers from Malaysian companies openly proposing to provide Chinese SSTPF changing the origin so as to avoid 
anti-dumping duties (8). Whilst, as noted in Recital (35), the investigation found no evidence that Malaysian 
companies actually acted on the alleged proposal to re-sell Chinese SSTPF, it confirmed that a change in the pattern 
of trade took place. In view of the evidence, in particular the known genuine production capacity in Malaysia, it was 
unlikely that such change occurred due to a practice, process or work for which there is sufficient due cause or 
economic justification. The Commission therefore continued the investigation.
(7) Request, point 43, page 8 and point 55, page 12.
(8) Request, point 62, page 14.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/23  
(37)
The investigation concerned all practices covered by Article 13 of the basic Regulation (see recital (15)), therefore the 
Commission also analysed assembly operations of the companies in question on the basis of use of Chinese raw 
materials or semi-finished products.
(38)
With regard to assembly operations, the Commission specifically analysed whether the criteria set out in 
Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation were met, in particular:
— whether the assembly/completion operation started or substantially increased since, or just prior to, the 
initiation of the anti-dumping investigation and whether the parts concerned are from the country subject to 
measures, and
— whether the parts constitute 60 % or more of the total value of the parts of the assembled product and whether 
the value added to the parts brought in, during the assembly or completion operation, was lower than 25 % of 
the manufacturing costs.
2.2. Cooperation
(39)
As stated in recital (25), four exporting producers in Malaysia requested to be exempted from the measures, if 
extended to Malaysia. They co-operated during the entire proceeding by submitting exemption claim forms, by 
providing replies to deficiency letters and by agreeing to on-spot verifications. The level of cooperation from the 
Malaysian exporting producers was high, as their aggregated reported export volumes of SSTPF to the Union in 
their submitted exemption claim forms accounted for the entirety of the total Malaysian import volumes during the 
reporting period, as reported in the EUROSTAT import statistics.
2.3. Change in the pattern of trade
2.3.1. Imports of SSTPF into the Union
(40)
Table 1 shows the development of imports of SSTPF from China and Malaysia into the Union in the investigation 
period.
Table 1
Union imports of SSTPF in the investigation period (tonnes) 
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
RP
China
3 018
3 121
1 412
1 008
523
693
708
719
Index (base=2014)
100
103
47
33
17
23
23
24
Malaysia
297
314
382
502
1 120
1 414
1 290
1 626
Index (base=2014)
100
106
129
169
377
476
434
547
Source:
2014 and 2015: original investigation (without UK).
2016: Eurostat (imports at CN level were adjusted to TARIC level based on 2017 data).
2017 to RP: Eurostat (TARIC level).
(41)
The total volume of the Union’s imports of SSTPF from Malaysia increased more than five times in the investigation 
period, from 297 tonnes in 2014 to 1 626 tonnes in the RP.
(42)
At the same time, the Union’s imports from China decreased by 76 %, from 3 018 tonnes in 2014 to 719 tonnes in 
the RP.
(43)
As the Commission did not find any evidence of transhipment by the four cooperating exporting producers, 
Malaysian import volumes of product under investigation from China were not analysed.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/24 
3.3.2023  
2.3.2. Malaysian imports of parts (raw-materials and semi-finished products) from China
(44)
The main input materials for the production of SSTPF are welded pipes and tubes and seamless pipes and tubes. 
These input materials are then further processed to produce welded and seamless fittings accordingly. Additionally, 
seamless fittings in the form of caps are produced from plates. Furthermore, one of the cooperating companies was 
also using baffle plates for the production of welded fittings of large diameters. Finally, one of the cooperating 
companies was also importing during part of the IP semi-finished products (pipe connectors) for further processing.
(45)
Table 2 shows the development of Malaysian imports of the parts used for the manufacture of SSTPF from China, 
based on the verified data of the cooperating companies. The Commission compared these figures with the 
Malaysian import statistics obtained from the Malaysian authorities and those available in the Global Trade Atlas 
(GTA) (9) database. However, the figures reported by the companies were found more reliable in the pattern of trade 
analysis than the import statistics. The raw materials in question can be imported into Malaysia under several 
10-digit customs codes and they can be used also in downstream sectors other than manufacturing of SSTPF. At 
cooperating exporting producers’ level, and given the high cooperation, the Commission could trace the final use of 
the parts and whether these were used for subsequent export of SSTPF to the Union. Consequently, the Commission 
decided to rely upon the verified information provided by the cooperating companies.
Table 2
Imports into Malaysia of raw materials from China in the investigation period (tonnes) (10)
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
RP
China
[200 – 
300]
[300 – 
400]
[580 – 
660]
[280 – 
360]
[800 – 
900]
[1 500 – 
1 600]
[1 950 – 
2 050]
[2 400 – 
2 500]
Index 
(base=2014)
100
134
241
120
336
625
801
977
Source: Verified companies data.
(46)
The figures in Table 2 present aggregated volumes of imports of all those raw-materials/semi-finished products 
imported from China by the cooperating Malaysian producers, which cover 100 % of Malaysian exports of SSTPF to 
the Union in the reporting period.
(47)
Table 2 shows that Malaysian imports of raw materials/semi-finished products from China substantially increased 
throughout the investigation period, almost 10 times. This increase was especially visible in the period 2018-RP.
(48)
The significant increase in import volumes of raw materials from China to Malaysia indicated an increasing demand 
for such input materials in Malaysia, which could, at least in part, be explained by the increase in the production and 
exports of SSTPF from Malaysia to the Union during the investigation period.
2.3.3. Conclusion on the change in the pattern of trade
(49)
The increase of exports of SSTPF from Malaysia to the Union, together with the increase in Chinese exports of parts 
to Malaysia over the same period, constitute a change in the pattern of trade between China, Malaysia and the Union 
within the meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation.
(9) https://connect.ihsmarkit.com/gta/home.
(10) The figures are given in ranges as for the years 2014-2017 they refer to only two companies.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/25  
(50)
Following disclosure, PMM B.V. indicated that antidumping measures against SSTPF originating in China were 
imposed in January 2017 while EU imports from Malaysia were already rising between 2014 and 2017.
(51)
The company also observed that the increase of Malaysian imports of inputs from China in the IP was much higher 
than the increase of Malaysian exports of fittings to the Union. According to the PMM B.V. this means that Malaysian 
producers simply increased production of SSTPF, not necessarily having the Union market as a target.
(52)
However, it should be noted that the investigation leading to the imposition of the original measures was initiated in 
October 2015. As the initiation of the antidumping proceeding may in itself have an effect on the behaviour of 
economic operators, and to have a complete picture and properly compare the trade flows before the initiation of 
the investigation with those after that and after the imposition of the duty, the Commission decided to start the IP 
of the current circumvention investigation from 1 January 2014. Indeed, a rise of imports from Malaysia was 
already visible between 2014 and 2017. However, rise in volume of those imports accelerated between 2017 and 
the RP, that is, after the imposition of the duty as provided for in Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation.
(53)
Exactly the same pattern could be observed in the Malaysian imports of raw materials from China. The fact that the 
increase in imports of Chinese stainless steel pipes into Malaysia does not match ‘one-to-one’ with the increase of 
Malaysian exports of SSTPF to the Union does not change the finding that the latter increased more than five times 
in the IP, which, together with the almost tenfold increase of imports of inputs from the PRC into Malaysia, 
constitutes a change in the pattern of trade in the sense of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation. Moreover, as pipes 
imported from China are not only used for the production of fittings, there was no ‘one-to-one’ match.
(54)
Following disclosure, MAC also claimed that the Commission failed to analyse or qualify the change in the pattern of 
trade. In its view, the fact that imports of raw materials from the PRC into Malaysia increased almost 10 times, while 
Union imports of SSTPF from Malaysia only increased more than five times, implies that necessarily, only about half 
of the raw materials imported into Malaysia from China ended up in SSTPF exported to the Union. MAC further 
claimed that given that the two cooperating exporters already found to be genuine Malaysian producers imported 
only a very minor percentage of their raw materials from China but also increased their exports to the Union after 
imposition of the SSTPF duty, and given that the verified sales data of MAC confirmed that nearly 50 % by weight of 
MAC’s SSTPF sales went to markets other than the Union, the weight of the Commission’s ‘change in the pattern of 
trade’ finding would appear to fall principally on TP and in any event the finding is not adequately reasoned or 
based on consistent evidence.
(55)
The claim was rejected. First, at country-wide level, based on official statistics and verified data from the cooperating 
companies, the investigation has established that, whilst imports of SSTPF from the PRC into the Union decreased 
significantly, there were significant increases of both imports of inputs from the PRC into Malaysia and Union 
imports of SSTPF from Malaysia in the investigation period. Such evidence clearly proves that increasing demand 
for such input materials in Malaysia could, at least in part, be explained by the increase in the production and 
exports of SSTPF from Malaysia to the Union during the investigation period (see recital (48)). Second, even 
following MAC’s argument that only about half of the raw materials imported into Malaysia from China ended up in 
SSTPF exported to the Union, there would still be a change in the pattern of trade in the sense of Article 13(1) of the 
basic Regulation. Third, besides analysing the change in the pattern of trade at country-wide level, the Commission 
also analysed it at the level of MAC and TP only, based on their own data as verified, and there are also significant, 
parallel increases (see Table 3 below). The bulk of both increases falls principally on MAC, as TP only started 
operations in the second half of 2020 (see recital (89)). Further, most of MAC’s exports to the Union in the 
investigation period were made from parts imported from the PRC, as the company imported almost 100 % of its 
raw materials from China (see recital (58)). Therefore, at country-wide level the investigation showed a clear change 
in the pattern of trade. Moreover, the investigation at a company level, based on verified data from the company, 
found MAC to be one of the main contributors to that change. MAC did not offer any different analysis, reasoning 
or qualification, nor suggested what other evidence the Commission should have used.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/26 
3.3.2023  
2.4. Practice, process or work for which there is insufficient due cause or economic justification other 
than the imposition of the anti-dumping duty
(56)
The Commission first analysed whether the operations of the cooperating companies started or substantially 
increased since, or just prior to, the initiation of the anti-dumping investigation, and whether the parts concerned 
were from the country subject to measures.
(57)
The cooperating companies imported raw materials and parts from China in the IP and thus possibly performed 
assembly/completion operations in Malaysia, before shipping the SSTPF to the Union.
(58)
MAC and TP started their operations after the imposition of the measures on China in January 2017 (in 2018 
and 2020 respectively). They imported almost 100 % of their raw materials from China (11).
(59)
Furthermore, both companies’ sales of the SSTPF to the Union and imports of raw materials from China significantly 
increased from the moment of the companies’ set up, with a peak in the RP.
(60)
Table 3 shows the trends on the basis of aggregated figures for both companies with regard to their exports of the 
SSTPF to the Union and their imports of raw-materials/semi-finished products from China in the period 
2018-RP (12).
Table 3
MAC and TP export and import indicators (year 2018=100) 
2018
2019
2020
RP
Exports of SSTPF to EU
100
527
654
813
Imports of RM from China
100
366
440
608
Source: verified companies’ data.
(61)
The situation of the other two companies (Pantech and SPI) was completely different. Both companies were 
producers of SSTPF even before 2014. The applicants in their request identified both companies as genuine 
producers (13). Their exports to the Union increased after the imposition of measures, but the investigation 
confirmed that they were genuine producers (see Section 2.5 below on the value of parts test). Only seamless pipes, 
that constituted a minor percentage of their raw materials/parts, were imported from China over the IP, and 
subsequently used for production of SSTPF exported to the Union.
(62)
Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation requires a link between the practice, process or work in question and the 
change of the pattern of trade, as the latter must ‘stem’ from the former. It is therefore the practice, process or work 
leading to the change of the pattern of trade, which needs to have a sufficient due cause or economic justification 
other than the imposition of the duty, in order not to be considered circumvention within the meaning of 
Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation.
(63)
Even though there might have been other reasons to set up the company in Malaysia than the measures in place, i.e. 
to supply the Malaysian domestic market, other elements strongly point, as far as MAC and TP are concerned, to a 
change in the pattern of trade in connection with the imposition of the duties:
— the companies were established after imposition of the original measures;
(11) In the first year (2018) of its activity and in the RP MAC had minor purchases of plates also from Malaysia.
(12) Due to confidentiality reasons only an index is provided as the figures concern only two companies.
(13) Request, point 60, page 12.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/27  
— the operation substantially increased since the two companies represented 8 % of Malaysian exports of SSTPF to 
the Union in 2018 and 47 % of these exports in the RP;
— their sales to the Union were higher than their combined domestic and third country sales, showing that they 
clearly targeted the Union market. One of these companies was solely selling to the Union.
(64)
Moreover, TP is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Chinese company Sinotube, which in turn is part of the Tsingshan 
Group, a Chinese steel giant producing a wide variety of steel products, including SSTPF.
(65)
In light of all these elements, the Commission concluded that there was insufficient due cause or economic 
justification other than the imposition of the duty, for the processing operations of MAC and TP in the two 
production sites (14) in Malaysia. The change in the pattern of trade was a result of the fact that the operation started 
and then substantially increased after the original measures were imposed.
(66)
Following disclosure, MAC claimed that there had been sufficient due cause and economic justification for its 
establishment in late 2017 and the growth of its production operations and international exports in the subsequent 
years.
(67)
Concretely, MAC claimed that the rationale for the establishment of the company is essentially a business 
opportunity that had nothing to do with the imposition of the duties in the original investigation. It took over the 
business of a genuine producer (KT Fittings) and switched the focus of its operation to production from seamless 
pipes from China. According to its submission, MAC took over that business to carry out the level of processing 
sufficient to qualify for Malaysian origin under the Union's non-preferential rules of origin. Since KT Fittings was 
not subject to anti-dumping duties, by taking over its predecessor’s machinery, production site and client list, the 
new management allegedly had justified reasons to believe that MAC’s future sales would be free of any ‘EU SSTPF 
duty’. The shift from production from welded pipes to seamless pipes was allegedly due this market being 
dominated by two other, vertically-integrated Malaysian producers (Pantech and SPI). In MAC’s view, all this 
constituted due cause and economic justification under Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation, and the fact that MAC 
was established in 2017, after the initiation of the original investigation, was coincidental.
(68)
Moreover, MAC argued that the disclosure raised no doubts about MAC's full production capability and actual 
production of fittings from its verified purchases of raw materials needed by any genuine producer of SSTPF. As 
regards both MAC’s production capability and actual full line production from raw materials, there was no 
difference with the set-up of Pantech and SPI.
(69)
MAC also claimed that there was no factual similarity between MAC and TP, and that the statement as regards MAC 
targeting the Union market was factually inaccurate. The 52 % by weight (or 54 % by value) of MAC’s sales figure for 
the Union could not be deemed a ‘targeting’ of the Union market.
(70)
Also PMM B.V. in its comments on disclosure highlighted the fact that MAC is a ‘continuation’ of the company KT 
Fittings and as such ‘a genuine producer that produced fittings well before the investigation period’. An identical 
comment was submitted by Dacapo Stainless B.V. (‘DS B.V.’), another Union importer.
(71)
At the outset, the Commission recalled that it verified on-spot, among other factors, the actual production, 
production capacity and purchases of inputs of MAC, and that the established facts regarding those factors were not 
disputed. It follows from the above that, under Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation, the investigation established a 
difference between MAC and SPI and Pantech. As established in recitals (87), (98) and (99), 99,99 % of the parts 
used by MAC in their production of SSTPF were from the PRC, while for Pantech and SPI the share was below 10 % 
and 30 % respectively. Regarding the factual similarity between MAC and TP the investigation established that both 
companies were engaged in a similar practice in that they both imported most of the inputs from the PRC, added 
limited value to them, and exported the resulting fittings to the Union. Moreover, findings with regard to MAC are 
based on its actual activities not on what MAC could have hypothetically done with its machinery and production 
site.
(14) Accounting in RP already for almost 40 % of Malaysian exports to the Union.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/28 
3.3.2023  
(72)
As stated in recital (62), article 13(1) of the basic Regulation establishes a link between the practice, process or work 
in question and the change of the pattern of trade as the latter must ‘stem’ from the former. It is therefore the 
practice, process or work leading to the change of the pattern of trade, which needs to have a sufficient due cause or 
economic justification other than the imposition of the duty, in order not to be considered a circumvention within 
the meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation.
(73)
There may be legitimate reasons, such as availability of trained workforce and assets, for establishing a company. 
However, what matters is not only its establishment but the way the company in question operates. In other words, 
if the activity of the company - its practice, process or work – is the reason for the change of the pattern of trade, the 
economic justification and due cause for that practice must be examined under Article 13(1).
(74)
As explained in recital (87), the investigation found the practice in which MAC is involved to be an assembly 
operation within the meaning of Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation. The Company essentially bought Chinese 
seamless pipes, added little value to transform them into SSPTF and sold them on the Union market. Moreover, as 
discussed in recitals (57) to (60), this practice was found to be responsible for the change of the pattern of trade.
(75)
Regarding the economic justification and due cause, it should be noted that, just like TP, MAC was established after 
the imposition of the duties. Moreover, as acknowledged in the submission, unlike its predecessor – KT Fittings – 
MAC focused its operation on the production from Chinese seamless pipes. Indeed, unlike in the case described in 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2093 (15), referred to by MAC, the investigation found no 
business model based on sales to the Union of Malaysian SSTPF made virtually exclusively from Chinese parts 
which predates the imposition of the duties. Moreover, according to its submissions, MAC was established based on 
the expectation that it would achieve a level of processing sufficient to confer Malaysian non-preferential origin and 
that it would be able to source raw materials from the PRC by relying on previous relationships with a Chinese 
supplier. The rationale for MAC’s operations was thus to be able to use almost exclusively Chinese parts, add little 
value and export to the Union products with Malaysian origin, without paying the anti-dumping duty on imports 
from the PRC. Indeed, as MAC stated in its comments on disclosure, obtaining Malaysian non-preferential origin 
was cause for the establishment of the company, and was advertised by them and required by their clients.
(76)
Finally, the Commission was not provided with information regarding the operations of KT fittings prior to the 
establishment of MAC. However, neither the fact that MAC took over the machinery, personnel, management 
experience and client base of KT fittings nor the fact that it did not target the Union market exclusively, could 
change the conclusions of the investigation regarding MAC.
(77)
Consequently, MAC failed to demonstrate that there was sufficient due cause or economic justification other than the 
imposition of the duty for its practice in question.
(78)
Following disclosure, MAC claimed that its processing of Chinese pipes further gives rise to a change in the tariff 
headings of all the raw materials and thereby confers Malaysian origin for MAC’s SSTPF under the EU’s relevant 
‘specific’ origin rules. According to MAC, EU rules of origin are to be taken into account in EU anti-circumvention 
investigations.
(15) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2093 of 15 November 2017 terminating the investigation concerning possible 
circumvention of the anti-dumping measures imposed by Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1331/2011 on imports of 
certain seamless pipes and tubes of stainless steel originating in the People's Republic of China by imports consigned from India, 
whether declared as originating in India or not, and terminating the registration of such imports imposed by Commission 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/272 (OJ L 299, 16.11.2017, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/29  
(79)
The legal basis for an anti-circumvention investigation is Article 13 of the basic Regulation, and not customs 
legislation regarding origin. Indeed, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the sole purpose of a 
Regulation extending an anti-dumping duty is to ensure the effectiveness of that duty and to prevent its 
circumvention (16). The case-law has clarified that the use of ‘from’ rather than ‘originating in’ in Article 13 of the 
basic Regulation implies that ‘the EU legislature has deliberately chosen to distance itself from rules of origin under 
customs law and that, therefore, the concept of “from” […] possesses an autonomous and distinct meaning from 
that of the concept of “origin” under customs law’ (17). This claim was therefore rejected.
(80)
Following disclosure, PMM B.V. commented on certain findings of the investigation concerning TP. Concretely, the 
company indicated that TP started its operations almost six years after the initiation of the original investigation 
which allegedly does not qualify for circumvention as defined in Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation. Furthermore, 
PMM B.V. observed that in 2022 TP sold only 50 % of its fittings to the Union, so it was no longer targeting solely 
the Union market as found by the Commission in the RP.
(81)
First, it should be stressed that neither PMM B.V. nor their legal representative were empowered to represent TP in 
this procedure, and that TP did not send any submission challenging the findings of the investigation following 
disclosure. Second, PMM B.V. referred in its submission to confidential correspondence with a ‘director/general 
manager of TP’ whom the Commission did not find listed on the board of directors in the financial statements of 
TP. Third, company specific post-RP data could not be taken into account as they could not be verified. Finally, TP 
started its operations in the second half of 2020 (see recital (89)), so the requirement of Article 13(2) of the basic 
Regulation was clearly met as the operation both started and substantially increased since the initiation of the 
original investigation, in 2015.
(82)
PMM B.V. also claimed that both TP and MAC were not assembling but manufacturing, and therefore Article 13(2) of 
the basic Regulation was not applicable in their case, as it does not cover modifying and working raw materials to 
form another product, as in the case of SSTPF. To support that claim they also referred to recital (20) of the basic 
Regulation. In their view, the mention of ‘mere assembly’ in that recital means that the term must be interpreted 
narrowly.
(83)
The Commission noted that the basic Regulation does not define the terms ‘assembly operation’ or ‘completion 
operation’. However, the way Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation is constructed favours a broad interpretation of 
the term ‘assembly operation’ as, according to Article 13(2)(b), it explicitly is also meant to encapsulate ‘completion 
operation’. It follows that ‘assembly operation’ within the meaning of article 13(2) is meant to cover not only 
operations that consist of assembling parts of a composite article, but may also involve further processing i.e. 
completion of a product. Indeed, when interpreting Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation, the Court of Justice has 
held that ‘pursuant to settled case-law, in interpreting a provision of EU law, it is necessary to consider not only its 
wording, but also the context in which it occurs and the objectives pursued by the rules of which it is part’ (18).
(84)
Moreover, recital (20) of the basic Regulation reads ‘Union legislation should contain provisions to deal with 
practices, including mere assembly of goods in the Union or a third country, which have as their main aim the 
circumvention of anti-dumping measures’. This wording rather suggests a broad interpretation of Article 13(2) so 
that all practices with the main aim of circumventing the duties, i.e. ‘mere’ assembly and other practices, are covered.
(85)
The investigation showed that the operations carried out by MAC and TP met all the requirements of Article 13(2) of 
the basic Regulation for an assembly operation to constitute circumvention. PMM B.V. did not offer any evidence to 
the contrary. Consequently, the Commission rejected the claim.
(16) Judgment of 12 September 2019, Commission v Kolachi Raj Industrial, C-709/17 P, EU:C:2019:717, para. 96 and the case-law cited.
(17) Judgment of 12 September 2019, Commission v Kolachi Raj Industrial, C-709/17 P, EU:C:2019:717, para. 90.
(18) Judgment of 12 September 2019, Commission v Kolachi Raj Industrial, C-709/17 P, ECLI:EU:C:2019:717, para. 82 and the case-law 
cited.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/30 
3.3.2023  
2.5. Value of parts and value added
(86)
Article 13(2)(b) of the basic Regulation states that, as far as assembly or completion operations are concerned, a 
condition to establish circumvention is that the parts from the countries subject to measures constitute 60 % or 
more of the total value of the parts of the assembled product and that the added value to the parts brought in, 
during the assembly or completion operation, is less than 25 % of the manufacturing cost.
MAC and TP
(87)
For MAC, in the RP 99,99 % of all parts used by the company were from China. The value added to the raw materials 
was below 15 % of the manufacturing cost.
(88)
For TP, all the parts used by the company in the production of fittings in the RP were imported from China.
(89)
TP started its operations in the second half of 2020. Its capacity utilisation as reported was below 5 % in 2020 and 
below 25 % in the RP. However, the company incorrectly allocated full depreciation of machinery and full rental 
cost (land and buildings) as the value added to the parts brought in to the extremely low production quantity.
(90)
The Commission thus adjusted the two above-mentioned cost elements to reasonably reflect the value added in the 
context of the low capacity utilisation of the company during the RP.
(91)
In addition, the Commission reduced the cost of production (and, in turn, the added value) by the verified income 
from sales of scrap generated in the production of SSTPF.
(92)
Finally, an adjustment for the stock variation of work in progress was applied. This adjustment enabled to isolate the 
cost of production linked to the quantity of finished goods produced in the RP and to eliminate the cost of raw 
material and processing linked to the goods, which were not yet finished at the end of the RP. The company itself 
did not keep records of work in progress. The Commission was, however, able to estimate the stock variation of 
work in progress based on the verified stock movements of raw materials and finished goods. The respective 
inventory reports were collected during the on-spot verification.
(93)
After the adjustments described in recitals (89) to (92), the added value established for TP was below 18 % of the cost 
of manufacturing.
(94)
Following disclosure, PMM B.V. (again on behalf of an ‘unknown’ director/general manager of TP as explained in 
recital (81) above) requested detailed disclosure of the above added value calculation.
(95)
However, the calculation in question was already disclosed to TP as part of its sensitive specific disclosure. TP did not 
submit any comments in this regard.
(96)
The Commission therefore concluded that, for MAC and TP, the parts purchased from China constituted 60 % or 
more of the total value of the parts of assembled product, and that the value added to the parts brought in, during 
the assembly or completion operation, was less than 25 % of the manufacturing cost, as required by Article 13(2)(b) 
of the basic Regulation for these operations to constitute circumvention.
Pantech and SPI
(97)
Both companies produced seamless fittings (standard (19) and caps) and welded fittings. There are three kinds of 
raw materials/parts used in this production: seamless pipes for production of standard seamless fittings, plates for 
production of caps and welded pipes for production of standard welded fittings.
(19) In this case, ‘standard’ refers to seamless fittings produced from seamless pipes and tubes, such as elbows, tees and reducers.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/31  
(98)
Pantech is vertically integrated in its production of welded fittings i.e. the company produced its own welded pipes. 
The plates the company used for production of caps were also own-produced (slicing of welded pipes) or mainly 
procured from local Malaysian producers (20). The company imported from China 100 % of the seamless pipes. 
However, production of seamless fitting was a small percentage of the activity of the company. Accordingly, the 
parts imported from China accounted in the RP for less than 10 % of all parts used in the total production of SSTPF.
(99)
Similar to Pantech, SPI was also using in its production its own welded pipes (purchased from a related Malaysian 
producer). Plates were also procured domestically, while seamless pipes were 100 % imported from China. Taking 
into account the company’s production structure, parts imported from China accounted in the RP for less than 
30 % of all parts used in the total production of SSTPF.
(100) Therefore, the parts from the country subject to measures constitute much less than 60 % of the total value of parts 
for Pantech and SPI.
(101) Moreover, for both companies these operations already took place before the imposition of the measures and, in 
addition, did not only target specifically the Union market. Therefore, the operations carried out by Pantech and SPI 
did not constitute circumvention as provided for in Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation
2.6. Undermining the remedial effect of the anti-dumping duty
(102) In accordance with Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the imports of the 
product under investigation, both in terms of quantities and prices, undermined the remedial effects of the 
measures currently in force.
(103) The quantities of SSTPF that were exported into the Union by MAC and TP increased significantly in absolute 
volumes during the investigation period and represented around 6 % of the Union consumption during the RP. 
Consumption in the Union was estimated as over 12 000 tonnes resulting from adding all imports of SSTPF from 
all origins, amounting to over 4 000 tonnes, to the Union sales as provided by the applicant for the purpose of this 
investigation, amounting to over 8 000 tonnes.
(104) Regarding prices, the Commission compared the average non-injurious price as established in the original 
investigation, adjusted for inflation, with the weighted average export CIF prices determined on the basis of the 
information provided by MAC and TP, duly adjusted to include post clearance costs. This price comparison showed 
that both companies substantially (by more than 50 %) undersold the Union prices in the RP. Moreover, the current 
import prices of MAC and TP also undercut the Union prices provided by the applicant in the request for year 2021, 
and are also below the cost of production of the Union industry in the same year (21).
(105) The Commission therefore concluded that the existing measures were undermined in terms of quantities and prices 
by the imports from Malaysia by MAC and TP.
(106) Following disclosure, PMM B.V. indicated that the quantities exported by MAC and TP to the Union could not 
possibly undermine the remedial effect of the measures, as these quantities represented only 6 % of the Union 
consumption during the RP.
(107) Furthermore, PMM B.V. and DS B.V. challenged the Commission’s undercutting and underselling findings with 
regard to MAC and TP export prices. They based their claims on a comparison of their purchase invoices from 
Malaysian exporters and Union producers. Moreover, they claimed that those prices could not be compared, as 
Malaysian fittings and those produced in the Union were of different standards and are not interchangeable.
(20) Pantech imported minor quantities of plates from China in 2015 and 2018.
(21) Request, Sections C.3.1 to C.3.3.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/32 
3.3.2023  
(108) Regarding quantities, PMM B.V. provided no argumentation why 6 % could not be considered to undermine the 
remedial effect of the measures, it merely stated ‘in their view 6 % is not undermining in terms of volume because it 
is too little to speak of undermining’. In any case, the Commission considered that 6 % market share was not 
insignificant in terms of volume. On the contrary, this volume of imports that was found to be circumventing the 
measures was almost as high as the total market share of Taiwan in the original investigation. This was sufficient to 
conclude that such volumes were causing injury to the Union industry and resulted in the imposition of measures 
against Taiwan.
(109) Second, the Commission made its undercutting and underselling calculations on the basis of full sets of data verified 
at the premises of the companies which submitted questionnaires/exemption forms. The Union importers did not 
have access to these figures. The calculations were fully disclosed to the Malaysian exporters. None of them 
submitted any comments in this regard. Furthermore, none of the two Union importers challenging the 
Commission calculations provided questionnaire replies in the course of the investigation. Thus, the figures they 
submitted after disclosure could not be verified by the Commission.
(110) Finally, there is no legal basis to look at the definition of product scope and interchangeability of different product 
types under Article 13 of the basic Regulation. On the contrary, according to Article 13 of the basic Regulation, to 
establish circumvention the Commission must determine that the ‘remedial effects of the duty are being 
undermined in terms of prices and/or quantities’. The duty referred to in Article 13 of the basic Regulation is the 
original anti-dumping duty. Such duty was established on the basis of the product scope in the original 
investigation (22). Therefore, the assessment of whether its effects are being undermined must be carried out based 
on the same scope.
2.7. Evidence of dumping
(111) In accordance with Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission also examined whether there was evidence 
of dumping in relation to the normal values previously established for the like product.
(112) The Commission compared the average export prices of SSTPF from Malaysia in the RP, based on the verified data of 
MAC and TP, to the normal values established for China in the original anti-dumping investigation, adjusted for 
inflation.
(113) The comparison of normal values and export prices showed that the SSTPF exported by MAC and TP were exported 
at dumped prices during the reporting period.
(114) Following disclosure, PMM B.V. repeated its argumentation with regard to the lack of interchangeability of the 
Malaysian and Union-produced fittings regarding the dumping calculations.
(115) This claim was rejected on the same basis as that explained in recital (110). Indeed, according to Article 13 of the 
basic Regulation, to establish circumvention the Commission must determine that there is evidence of dumping in 
relation to the normal values previously established for the like or similar products. The normal value established in 
the original investigation was based on the original product scope, that included fittings of different standards.
3. MEASURES
(116) Based on the above findings, the Commission concluded that the anti-dumping duties imposed on imports of SSTPF 
originating in the PRC were being circumvented by imports of the product under investigation consigned from 
Malaysia by MAC and TP.
(22) That established that products with different standards share the same specific characteristics and are interchangeable. See recitals (52) 
to (60) of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141 (OJ L 22, 27.1.2017, p. 14).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/33  
(117) Given that the level of cooperation was high, covering all the exports to the Union in the RP, that the Commission 
concluded that two of the companies are genuine Malaysian producers not involved in circumvention practices and 
therefore were granted exemptions, and that no other company in Malaysia requested an exemption, the 
Commission concluded that the findings on circumvention practices in respect of the two circumventing 
companies should be extended to all imports from Malaysia, with the exception of those from genuine Malaysian 
producers.
(118) Therefore, in accordance with Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation, the anti-dumping measures in force on imports 
of SSTPF originating in China should be extended to imports of the product under investigation.
(119) Pursuant to Article 13(1), second paragraph of the basic Regulation, it is appropriate to extend the duty established 
in Article 1(2) of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141, as amended by Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2017/659 for ‘all other companies’, which is a definitive anti-dumping duty of 64,9 % applicable to the net, 
free-at-Union-frontier price, before customs duty.
(120) Pursuant to Article 13(3) of the basic Regulation, which provides that any extended measure should apply to imports 
that entered the Union under registration imposed by the initiating Regulation, duties are to be collected on those 
registered imports of the product under investigation in accordance with the findings made in this investigation.
4. REQUESTS FOR EXEMPTION
(121) As described above, MAC and TP were found to be involved in circumvention practices. Therefore, an exemption 
could not be granted to these companies pursuant to Article 13(4) of the basic Regulation.
(122) The investigation established that the two other co-operating exporting producers, Pantech and SPI, were genuine 
producers of SSTPF in Malaysia, and not engaged in circumvention practices. These two exporting producers are 
vertically integrated, were well established on the market before imposition of the original measures, and imported 
only limited amounts of raw-materials from China.
(123) Therefore, Pantech and SPI should be exempted from the extension of measures.
(124) The application of exemptions should be conditional upon presentation to the customs authorities of the Member 
States of a valid commercial invoice, which must conform to the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this 
regulation. Imports not accompanied by that invoice should be subject to the anti-dumping duty mentioned in 
recital (119).
(125) While presentation of this invoice is necessary for the customs authorities of the Member States to apply the 
exemptions, it is not the only element to be taken into account by the customs authorities. Indeed, even if presented 
with an invoice meeting all the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this regulation, the customs authorities of 
Member States must carry out their usual checks and may, like in all other cases, require additional documents 
(shipping documents, etc.) for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the particulars contained in the declaration 
and ensure that the subsequent application of the exemption is justified, in compliance with customs law.
5. DISCLOSURE
(126) On 30 November 2022, the Commission disclosed to all interested parties the essential facts and considerations 
leading to the above conclusions and invited them to comment.
(127) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by 
Article 15(1) of the basic Regulation,
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/34 
3.3.2023  
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
1.
The definitive anti-dumping duty imposed by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/141, as amended by 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/659, on imports of certain stainless steel tube and pipe butt-welding fittings, whether 
or not finished, originating in the People’s Republic of China, is hereby extended to imports of tube and pipe butt-welding 
fittings, of austenitic stainless steel grades, corresponding to AISI types 304, 304L, 316, 316L, 316Ti, 321 and 321H and 
their equivalent in the other norms, with a greatest external diameter not exceeding 406,4 mm and a wall thickness of 16 
mm or less, with a roughness average (Ra) of the internal surface not less than 0,8 micrometres, not flanged, whether or 
not finished, currently classified under CN codes ex 7307 23 10 and ex 7307 23 90 consigned from Malaysia, whether 
declared as originating in Malaysia or not (TARIC codes 7307 23 10 35, 7307 23 10 40, 7307 23 90 35, 7307 23 90 40).
2.
The extension of the duty mentioned in paragraph 1 does not apply to the companies listed below:
Country
Company
TARIC additional code
Malaysia
Pantech Stainless And Alloy Industries Sdn. Bhd
A021
Malaysia
SPI United Sdn. Bhd
A022
3.
The application of exemptions granted to the companies specifically mentioned in paragraph 2 of this Article or 
authorised by the Commission in accordance with Article 4(2) of this Regulation shall be conditional upon presentation to 
the customs authorities of the Member States of a valid commercial invoice, which shall conform to the requirements set 
out in the Annex to this Regulation. If no such invoice is presented, the anti-dumping duty as imposed by paragraph 1 of 
this Article shall apply.
4.
The extended duty is the anti-dumping duty of 64,9 % applicable to ‘all other companies’ in the PRC (TARIC 
additional code C999).
5.
The duty extended by paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Article shall be collected on imports registered in accordance with 
Article 2 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/894.
6.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply.
Article 2
Customs authorities are directed to discontinue the registration of imports established in accordance with Article 2 of 
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/894, which is hereby repealed.
Article 3
The exemption requests submitted by MAC Pipping Materials Sdn. Bhd and TP Inox Sdn. Bhd are rejected.
Article 4
1.
Requests for exemption from the duty extended by Article 1 shall be made in writing in one of the official languages 
of the European Union and must be signed by a person authorised to represent the entity requesting the exemption. The 
request must be sent to the following address:
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/35  
European Commission
Directorate-General for Trade
Directorate G Office:
CHAR 04/39
1049 Bruxelles/Brussel
BELGIQUE/BELGIË
2.
In accordance with Article 13(4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036, the Commission may authorise, by decision, the 
exemption of imports from companies which do not circumvent the anti-dumping measures imposed by Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2017/141, as amended by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/659, from the duty extended by Article 1.
Article 5
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 2 March 2023.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 67/36 
3.3.2023  
ANNEX 
A declaration signed by an official of the entity issuing the commercial invoice, in the following format, must appear on the 
valid commercial invoice referred to in Article 1(3):
(1) the name and function of the official of the entity issuing the commercial invoice;
(2) the following declaration: ‘I, the undersigned, certify that the (volume) of (product under investigation) sold for export 
to the European Union covered by this invoice was manufactured by (company name and address) (TARIC additional 
code) in (country concerned). I declare that the information provided in this invoice is complete and correct’;
(3) date and signature.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.3.2023 
L 67/37  
