COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 402/2013 
of 30 April 2013 
on the common safety method for risk evaluation and assessment and repealing Regulation (EC) No 
352/2009 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union, 
Having regard to Directive 2004/49/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on safety on 
the Community’s railways and amending Council Directive 
95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings and 
Directive 2001/14/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure 
capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infra­
structure and safety certification (Railway Safety Directive) ( 1 ), 
and in particular Article 6(4) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) 
In accordance with Directive 2004/49/EC, common 
safety methods (CSMs) should be gradually introduced 
to ensure that a high level of safety is maintained and, 
when and where necessary and reasonably practicable, 
improved. 
(2) 
On 12 October 2010 the Commission issued a mandate 
to the European Railway Agency (the ‘Agency’) in 
accordance 
with 
Directive 
2004/49/EC 
to 
revise 
Commission Regulation (EC) No 352/2009 of 24 April 
2009 on the adoption of a common safety method on 
risk evaluation and assessment as referred to in 
Article 6(3)(a) of Directive 2004/49/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ). The revision should 
cover the results of the analysis by the Agency under 
Article 9(4) of the Regulation of the overall effectiveness 
of the CSM for risk evaluation and assessment and 
experience with its application as well as further devel­
opments in the roles and the responsibilities of the 
assessment body referred to in Article 6 of that Regu­
lation. The revision should also include the qualification 
requirements (by developing a recognition/accreditation 
scheme) for the assessment body according to its role 
in the CSM, with a view to improving clarity in order 
to avoid differences in application across the Member 
States, taking into account the interfaces with existing 
Union 
authorisation/certification procedures in 
the 
railway sector. If feasible, the revision of Regulation 
(EC) No 352/2009 should also cover further devel­
opments in risk acceptance criteria that could be used 
to assess the acceptability of a risk during explicit risk 
estimation and evaluation. The Agency submitted its 
recommendation on the revision of the CSM to the 
Commission, supported by an impact assessment report 
to address the mandate of the Commission. This Regu­
lation is based on that Agency recommendation. 
(3) 
In accordance with Directive 2004/49/EC the basic 
elements for the safety management system should 
include procedures and methods for carrying out risk 
evaluation and implementing risk control measures 
whenever a change in operating conditions or new 
material imposes new risks on the infrastructure or on 
operations. That basic element of the safety management 
system is covered by this Regulation. 
(4) 
Article 14a(3) of Directive 2004/49/EC requires entities 
in charge of maintenance to establish a system of main­
tenance in order to ensure that the vehicles for which 
they are in charge of maintenance are in a safe state of 
running. To manage changes in equipment, procedures, 
organisation, staffing or interfaces, the entities in charge 
of maintenance should have in place risk assessment 
procedures. That requirement for the system of main­
tenance is also covered by this Regulation. 
(5) 
As a consequence of the application of Council Directive 
91/440/EEC of 29 July 1991 on the development of the 
Community’s railways ( 3 ) and of Article 9(2) of Directive 
2004/49/EC, particular attention should be paid to risk 
management at the interfaces between the actors which 
are involved in the application of this Regulation. 
(6) 
Article 15 of Directive 2008/57/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008 on the 
interoperability of the rail system within the Commu­
nity ( 4 ) requires Member States to take all appropriate 
steps to ensure that the structural subsystems consti­
tuting the rail system may be placed in service only if 
they are designed, constructed and installed in such a 
way as to meet the essential requirements concerning 
them when integrated into the rail system. In particular, 
the Member States must check the technical compatibility 
of these subsystems with the railway system into which 
they are being integrated and the safe integration of these 
subsystems in accordance with the scope of this Regu­
lation. 
(7) 
The absence of a common approach for specifying and 
demonstrating 
compliance 
with 
safety 
levels 
and 
requirements of the railway system among the Member
EN 
L 121/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013 
( 1 ) OJ L 164, 30.4.2004, p. 44. 
( 2 ) OJ L 108, 29.4.2009, p. 4. 
( 3 ) OJ L 237, 24.8.1991, p. 25. 
( 4 ) OJ L 191, 18.7.2008, p. 1.
States has proved to be one of the obstacles to liberali­
sation of the railway market. Such a common approach 
should be established through this Regulation. 
(8) 
To facilitate mutual recognition between Member States, 
the methods used for identifying and managing risks and 
the methods for demonstrating that the railway system in 
the 
territory 
of 
the 
Union 
conforms 
to 
safety 
requirements should be harmonised among the actors 
involved in the development and operation of the 
railway system. As a first step, it is necessary to 
harmonise the procedures and methods for carrying 
out risk evaluation and implementing control measures 
whenever a change in operating conditions or new 
material imposes new risks on the infrastructure or on 
operations, as referred to in point (2)(d) of Annex III to 
Directive 2004/49/EC. 
(9) 
If there is no existing notified national rule for defining 
whether or not a change is significant for the safety in a 
Member State, the company or organisation in charge of 
implementing the change (the ‘proposer’) should initially 
consider the potential impact of the change in question 
on the safety of the railway system. If the proposed 
change has an impact on safety, the proposer should 
assess, by expert judgement, the significance of the 
change based on a set of criteria that should be set out 
in this Regulation. This assessment should lead to one of 
three conclusions. In the first situation the change is not 
considered to be significant and the proposer should 
implement the change by applying its own safety 
method. In the second situation the change is considered 
to be significant and the proposer should implement the 
change by applying this Regulation, without the need for 
a specific intervention of the national safety authority. In 
the third situation the change is considered to be 
significant but there are provisions at the level of the 
European Union which require a specific intervention 
of the relevant national safety authority, such as a new 
authorisation for placing in service of a vehicle or a 
revision/update of the safety certificate of a railway 
undertaking or a revision/update of the safety authori­
sation of an infrastructure manager. 
(10) 
Whenever the railway system already in use is subject to 
a change, the significance of the change should also be 
assessed taking into account all safety-related changes 
affecting the same part of the system since the entry 
into force of this Regulation or since the last application 
of the risk management process set out in this Regu­
lation, whichever is the latest. The purpose is to assess 
whether or not the totality of such changes amounts to a 
significant change requiring the full application of the 
CSM for risk evaluation and assessment. 
(11) 
The risk acceptability of a significant change should be 
evaluated by using one or more of the following risk 
acceptance principles: the application of codes of 
practice, a comparison with similar parts of the railway 
system, or an explicit risk estimation. All principles have 
been used successfully in a number of railway appli­
cations, as well as in other transport modes and other 
industries. The ‘explicit risk estimation’ principle is 
frequently used for complex or innovative changes. The 
proposer should be responsible for the choice of the 
principle to apply. 
(12) 
When a widely recognised code of practice is applied, it 
should therefore be possible to reduce the impact of 
applying the CSM, in accordance with the principle of 
proportionality. In the same way, where there are 
provisions at the level of the Union which require 
specific intervention by the national safety authority, 
that authority should be allowed to act as the inde­
pendent assessment body in order to reduce double 
checking, undue costs to the industry and time to 
market. 
(13) 
To report to the Commission on the effectiveness and 
application of this Regulation, and where applicable to 
make recommendations to improve it, the Agency 
should be able to gather relevant information from the 
various actors involved, including from the national 
safety authorities, from the certification bodies of 
entities in charge of maintenance of freight wagons and 
from other entities in charge of maintenance that do not 
fall within the scope of Commission Regulation (EU) No 
445/2011 of 10 May 2011 on a system of certification 
of entities in charge of maintenance for freight 
wagons ( 1 ). 
(14) 
Accreditation of an assessment body should normally be 
granted by the national accreditation body which has 
exclusive competence to assess if the assessment body 
meets the requirements set by harmonised standards. 
Regulation 
(EC) 
No 
765/2008 
of 
the 
European 
Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting 
out the requirements for accreditation and market 
surveillance relating to the marketing of products ( 2 ) 
contains detailed provisions on the competence of such 
national accreditation bodies. 
(15) 
Where harmonised Union legislation provides for the 
selection of conformity assessment bodies for its imple­
mentation, transparent accreditation, as provided for in 
Regulation (EC) No 765/2008, should be considered by 
the national public authorities throughout the Union as 
the preferred means of demonstrating the technical 
competence of those bodies. However, national auth­
orities may consider that they possess the appropriate 
means to carry out this evaluation themselves. In such 
cases, the Member State should provide the Commission 
and the other Member States with all the documentary 
evidence necessary for verification of the competence of 
the recognition body it selects for implementation of the 
Union legislation. In order to achieve a similar level of 
quality and trust as expected through accreditation, the
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/9 
( 1 ) OJ L 122, 11.5.2011, p. 22. 
( 2 ) OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30.
requirements 
and 
rules 
for 
the 
evaluation 
and 
surveillance of assessment bodies in the case of recog­
nition should be equivalent to those used for accredi­
tation. 
(16) 
An independent and competent external or internal indi­
vidual, organisation or entity, a national safety authority, 
a notified body or a body designated according to 
Article 17 of Directive 2008/57/EC could act as an 
assessment body provided it fulfils the criteria required 
in Annex II. 
(17) 
Recognition of internal assessment bodies in compliance 
with this Regulation does not require an immediate 
revision of already delivered safety certificates to 
railway undertakings, safety authorisations to infra­
structure managers and certificates to entities in charge 
of maintenance. Their revision can be made at the next 
application for renewal or update of the safety certificate, 
safety authorisation or certificate of the entity in charge 
of maintenance. 
(18) 
In existing legislation there are no limits in the number 
of assessment bodies accredited or recognised in each 
Member State and there are no obligations to have at 
least one. Where the assessment body is not already 
designated by existing Union or national legislation, the 
proposer may appoint any assessment body in the Union 
or in a third country accredited under equivalent criteria 
and meeting equivalent requirements to those contained 
in this regulation. The Member State should be able to 
use accreditation or recognition or any combination of 
these two options. 
(19) 
Regulation (EC) No 352/2009 has become obsolete and 
should therefore be replaced by this Regulation. 
(20) 
In view of the new requirements introduced by the 
present Regulation in terms of accreditation and recog­
nition of the assessment body, the implementation of 
this Regulation should be deferred in order to give 
sufficient time to the actors concerned to put in place 
and implement this new common approach. 
(21) 
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in 
accordance with the opinion of the Committee estab­
lished in accordance with Article 27(1) of Directive 
2004/49/EC, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Subject matter 
1. 
This Regulation establishes a revised common safety 
method (CSM) for risk evaluation and assessment as referred 
to in Article 6(3)(a) of Directive 2004/49/EC. 
2. 
This Regulation shall facilitate the access to the market for 
rail transport services through harmonisation of: 
(a) the risk management processes used to assess the impact of 
changes on safety levels and compliance with safety require­
ments; 
(b) the exchange of safety-relevant information between 
different actors within the rail sector in order to manage 
safety across the different interfaces which may exist within 
this sector; 
(c) the evidence resulting from the application of a risk 
management process. 
Article 2 
Scope 
1. 
This Regulation shall apply to the proposer as defined in 
Article 3(11) when making any change to the railway system in 
a Member State. 
Such changes may be of a technical, operational or organisa­
tional nature. As regards organisational changes, only those 
changes which could impact the operational or maintenance 
processes shall be subjected to consideration under the rules 
of Article 4. 
2. 
When, on the basis of an assessment under the criteria set 
out in Article 4(2)(a) to (f): 
(a) the change is considered significant, the risk management 
process set out in Article 5 shall be applied; 
(b) the change is considered not significant, keeping adequate 
documentation to justify the decision shall be sufficient. 
3. 
This Regulation shall apply also to structural sub-systems 
to which Directive 2008/57/EC applies: 
(a) if a risk assessment is required by the relevant technical 
specification for interoperability (TSI); in this case the TSI 
shall, where appropriate, specify which parts of this Regu­
lation apply; 
(b) if the change is significant as set out in Article 4(2), the risk 
management process set out in Article 5 shall be applied 
within the placing in service of structural sub-systems to 
ensure their safe integration into an existing system, by 
virtue of Article 15(1) of Directive 2008/57/EC. 
4. 
The application of this Regulation in the case referred to 
in paragraph 3(b) of this Article shall not lead to requirements 
contradictory to those laid down in the relevant TSIs. If such 
contradictions occur, the proposer shall inform the Member 
State concerned which may then decide to ask for a revision 
of the TSI in accordance with Article 6(2) or Article 7 of 
Directive 2008/57/EC or a derogation in accordance with 
Article 9(2) of that Directive. 
5. 
The railway systems excluded from the scope of Directive 
2004/49/EC according to its Article 2(2) are excluded from the 
scope of this Regulation. 
6. 
The provisions of Regulation (EC) No 352/2009 shall 
continue to apply in relation to projects which are at an 
advanced stage of development within the meaning of 
Article 2(t) of Directive 2008/57/EC at the date of application 
of this Regulation.
EN 
L 121/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013
Article 3 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this Regulation the definitions in Article 3 of 
Directive 2004/49/EC apply. 
The following definitions also apply: 
(1) ‘risk’ means the frequency of occurrence of accidents and 
incidents resulting in harm (caused by a hazard) and the 
degree of severity of that harm; 
(2) ‘risk analysis’ means systematic use of all available 
information to identify hazards and to estimate the risk; 
(3) ‘risk evaluation’ means a procedure based on the risk 
analysis to determine whether an acceptable level of risk 
has been achieved; 
(4) ‘risk assessment’ means the overall process comprising a 
risk analysis and a risk evaluation; 
(5) ‘safety’ means freedom from unacceptable risk of harm; 
(6) ‘risk management’ means the systematic application of 
management policies, procedures and practices to the 
tasks of analysing, evaluating and controlling risks; 
(7) ‘interfaces’ means all points of interaction during a system 
or subsystem life cycle, including operation and main­
tenance where different actors of the rail sector will 
work together in order to manage the risks; 
(8) ‘actors’ means all parties which are, directly or through 
contractual arrangements, involved in the application of 
this Regulation; 
(9) ‘safety requirements’ means the safety characteristics (quali­
tative or quantitative) of a system and its operation 
(including operational rules) and maintenance necessary 
in order to meet legal or company safety targets; 
(10) ‘safety measures’ means a set of actions either reducing the 
frequency of occurrence of a hazard or mitigating its 
consequences in order to achieve and/or maintain an 
acceptable level of risk; 
(11) ‘proposer’ means one of the following: 
(a) a railway undertaking or an infrastructure manager 
which implements risk control measures in accordance 
with Article 4 of Directive 2004/49/EC; 
(b) an entity in charge of maintenance which implements 
measures in accordance with Article 14a(3) of 
Directive 2004/49/EC; 
(c) a contracting entity or a manufacturer which invites a 
notified body to apply the ‘EC’ verification procedure 
in 
accordance with Article 
18(1) 
of 
Directive 
2008/57/EC or a designated body according to 
Article 17(3) of that Directive; 
(d) an applicant for an authorisation for the placing in 
service of structural sub-systems; 
(12) ‘safety assessment report’ means the document containing 
the conclusions of the assessment performed by an 
assessment body on the system under assessment; 
(13) ‘hazard’ means a condition that could lead to an accident; 
(14) ‘assessment body’ means the independent and competent 
external or internal individual, organisation or entity which 
undertakes investigation to provide a judgement, based on 
evidence, of the suitability of a system to fulfil its safety 
requirements; 
(15) ‘risk acceptance criteria’ means the terms of reference by 
which the acceptability of a specific risk is assessed; these 
criteria are used to determine that the level of a risk is 
sufficiently low that it is not necessary to take any 
immediate action to reduce it further; 
(16) ‘hazard record’ means the document in which identified 
hazards, their related measures, their origin and the 
reference to the organisation which has to manage them 
are recorded and referenced; 
(17) ‘hazard identification’ means the process of finding, listing 
and characterising hazards; 
(18) ‘risk acceptance principle’ means the rules used in order to 
arrive at the conclusion whether or not the risk related to 
one or more specific hazards is acceptable; 
(19) ‘code of practice’ means a written set of rules that, when 
correctly applied, can be used to control one or more 
specific hazards; 
(20) ‘reference system’ means a system proven in use to have 
an acceptable safety level and against which the accepta­
bility of the risks from a system under assessment can be 
evaluated by comparison; 
(21) ‘risk estimation’ means the process used to produce a 
measure of the level of risks being analysed, consisting 
of 
the 
following 
steps: 
estimation 
of 
frequency, 
consequence analysis and their integration; 
(22) ‘technical system’ means a product or an assembly of 
products including the design, implementation and 
support documentation; the development of a technical 
system starts with its requirements specification and ends 
with its acceptance; although the design of relevant 
interfaces with human behaviour is considered, human 
operators and their actions are not included in a 
technical system; the maintenance process is described in 
the maintenance manuals but is not itself part of the 
technical system; 
(23) ‘catastrophic consequence’ means fatalities and/or multiple 
severe injuries and/or major damage to the environment 
resulting from an accident; 
(24) ‘safety acceptance’ means status given to the change by the 
proposer based on the safety assessment report provided 
by the assessment body; 
(25) ‘system’ means any part of the railway system which is 
subjected to a change whereby the change may be of a 
technical, operational or organisational nature;
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/11
(26) ‘notified national rule’ means any national rule notified by 
Member States under Council Directive 96/48/EC ( 1 ) or, 
Directive 2001/16/EC of the European Parliament and of 
the 
Council ( 2 ) 
and 
Directives 
2004/49/EC 
and 
2008/57/EC; 
(27) ‘certification body’ means a certification body as defined in 
Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 445/2011; 
(28) ‘conformity 
assessment 
body’ 
means 
a 
conformity 
assessment body as defined in Article 2 of Regulation 
(EC) No 765/2008; 
(29) ‘accreditation’ means accreditation as defined in Article 2 
of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008; 
(30) ‘national accreditation body’ means a national accreditation 
body as defined in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 
765/2008; 
(31) ‘recognition’ means an attestation by a national body other 
than the national accreditation body that the assessment 
body meets the requirements set out in Annex II to this 
Regulation to carry out the independent assessment 
activity specified in Article 6(1) and (2). 
Article 4 
Significant changes 
1. 
If there is no notified national rule for defining whether a 
change is significant or not in a Member State, the proposer 
shall consider the potential impact of the change in question on 
the safety of the railway system. 
If the proposed change has no impact on safety, the risk 
management process described in Article 5 need not be applied. 
2. 
If the proposed change has an impact on safety, the 
proposer shall decide, by expert judgement, on the significance 
of the change based on the following criteria: 
(a) failure consequence: credible worst-case scenario in the 
event of failure of the system under assessment, taking 
into account the existence of safety barriers outside the 
system under assessment; 
(b) novelty used in implementing the change: this concerns 
both what is innovative in the railway sector, and what is 
new for the organisation implementing the change; 
(c) complexity of the change; 
(d) monitoring: the inability to monitor the implemented 
change throughout the system life-cycle and intervene 
appropriately; 
(e) reversibility: the inability to revert to the system before the 
change; 
(f) additionality: assessment of the significance of the change 
taking into account all recent safety-related changes to the 
system under assessment and which were not judged to be 
significant. 
3. 
The proposer shall keep adequate documentation to justify 
its decision. 
Article 5 
Risk management process 
1. 
The proposer shall be responsible for applying this Regu­
lation, including the assessment of the significance of the 
change based on the criteria in Article 4, and for conducting 
the risk management process set out in Annex I. 
2. 
The proposer shall ensure that risks introduced by its 
suppliers and its service providers, including their subcon­
tractors, are also managed in compliance with this Regulation. 
To this end, the proposer may require through contractual 
arrangements that its suppliers and its service providers, 
including 
their 
subcontractors, 
participate 
in 
the 
risk 
management process set out in Annex I. 
Article 6 
Independent assessment 
1. 
An assessment body shall carry out an independent 
assessment of the suitability of both the application of the 
risk management process as set out in Annex I and of its 
results. This assessment body shall meet the criteria listed in 
Annex II. Where the assessment body is not already designated 
by existing Union or national legislation, the proposer shall 
appoint its own assessment body at the earliest appropriate 
stage of the risk assessment process. 
2. 
To perform the independent assessment, the assessment 
body shall: 
(a) ensure it has a thorough understanding of the significant 
change based on the documentation provided by the 
proposer; 
(b) conduct an assessment of the processes used for managing 
safety and quality during the design and implementation of 
the significant change, if those processes are not already 
certified by a relevant conformity assessment body; 
(c) conduct an assessment of the application of those safety and 
quality processes during the design and implementation of 
the significant change. 
Having completed its assessment in accordance with points (a), 
(b) and (c), the assessment body shall deliver the safety 
assessment report provided for in Article 15 and Annex III. 
3. 
Duplication of work between the following assessments 
shall be avoided: 
(a) the assessment of conformity of the safety management 
system and of the system of maintenance of entities in 
charge of maintenance as required by Directive 2004/49/EC; 
and 
(b) the conformity assessment carried out by a notified body as 
defined by Article 2(j) of Directive 2008/57/EC or a body 
designated in accordance with Article 17 of that Directive; 
and
EN 
L 121/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013 
( 1 ) OJ L 235, 17.9.1996, p. 6. 
( 2 ) OJ L 110, 20.4.2001, p. 1.
(c) any independent assessment carried out by the assessment 
body in accordance with this Regulation. 
4. 
Without prejudice to Union legislation, the proposer may 
choose the national safety authority as assessment body where 
that national safety authority offers this service and where the 
significant changes concern the following cases: 
(a) a vehicle needs an authorisation for placing in service, as 
referred to in Articles 22(2) and 24(2) of Directive 
2008/57/EC; 
(b) a vehicle needs an additional authorisation for placing in 
service, as referred to in Articles 23(5) and 25(4) of 
Directive 2008/57/EC; 
(c) the safety certificate has to be updated due to alteration of 
the type or extent of the operation, as referred to in 
Article 10(5) of Directive 2004/49/EC; 
(d) the safety certificate has to be revised due to substantial 
changes to the safety regulatory framework, as referred to 
in Article 10(5) of Directive 2004/49/EC; 
(e) the safety authorisation has to be updated due to substantial 
changes to the infrastructure, signalling or energy supply, or 
to the principles of their operation and maintenance, as 
referred to in Article 11(2) of Directive 2004/49/EC; 
(f) the safety authorisation has to be revised due to substantial 
changes to the safety regulatory framework, as referred to in 
Article 11(2) of Directive 2004/49/EC. 
Where a significant change concerns a structural subsystem that 
needs an authorisation for placing in service as referred to in 
Article 15(1) or Article 20 of Directive 2008/57/EC, the 
proposer may choose the national safety authority as 
assessment body, where that national safety authority offers 
this service, unless the proposer has already given that task to 
a notified body in accordance with Article 18(2) of that 
Directive. 
Article 7 
Accreditation/recognition of the assessment body 
The assessment body provided for in Article 6 shall be either: 
(a) accredited by the national accreditation body referred to in 
Article 13(1) using the criteria defined in Annex II; or 
(b) recognised by the recognition body referred to in 
Article 13(1) using the criteria defined in Annex II; or 
(c) the national safety authority under the requirement of 
Article 9(2). 
Article 8 
Acceptance of accreditation/recognition 
1. 
When granting the safety certificate or the safety auth­
orisation in accordance with Commission Regulation (EU) No 
1158/2010 ( 1 ) 
or 
Commission 
Regulation 
(EU) 
No 
1169/2010 ( 2 ), a national safety authority shall accept accredi­
tation or recognition by a Member State in accordance with 
Article 7, as proof of the ability of the railway undertaking or 
infrastructure manager to act as an assessment body. 
2. 
When granting the certificate to an entity in charge of 
maintenance 
in 
accordance 
with 
Regulation 
(EU) 
No 
445/2011, the certification body shall accept such accreditation 
or recognition by a Member State, as proof of the ability of the 
entity in charge of maintenance to act as assessment body. 
Article 9 
Types of recognition of the assessment body 
1. 
The following types of recognition of the assessment body 
may be used: 
(a) recognition by the Member State of an entity in charge of 
maintenance, an organisation or a part of it or an indi­
vidual; 
(b) recognition by the national safety authority of the ability of 
an organisation or a part of it or an individual to conduct 
independent assessment through the assessment and super­
vision of the safety management system of a railway under­
taking or an infrastructure manager; 
(c) when the national safety authority is acting as certification 
body in conformity with Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 
445/2011, recognition by the national safety authority of 
the ability of an organisation or a part of it or an individual 
to conduct independent assessment through assessment and 
surveillance of the system of maintenance of an entity in 
charge of maintenance; 
(d) recognition by a recognition body designated by the 
Member State of the ability of an entity in charge of main­
tenance, an organisation or a part of it or an individual to 
conduct independent assessment. 
2. 
When the Member State recognises the national safety 
authority as an assessment body, it is the responsibility of 
that Member State to ensure that the national safety authority 
fulfills the requirements set out in Annex II; In this case, the 
assessment body functions of the national safety authority shall 
be demonstrably independent of the other functions of the 
national safety authority. 
Article 10 
Validity of recognition 
1. 
In the cases referred in Article 9(1)(a) and (d) and 
Article 9(2), the period of validity of recognition shall not 
exceed 5 years from the date it is granted. 
2. 
In the case referred in Article 9(1)(b): 
(a) the statement of recognition for a railway undertaking or an 
infrastructure manager shall be displayed on the relevant 
safety certificate in field 5 ‘Additional Information’ of the
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/13 
( 1 ) OJ L 326, 10.12.2010, p. 11. 
( 2 ) OJ L 327, 11.12.2010, p. 13.
harmonised format of safety certificates provided in Annex I 
to Commission Regulation (EC) No 653/2007 ( 1 ) and in an 
appropriate part of the safety authorisations; 
(b) the period of validity of recognition shall be limited to the 
validity of the safety certificate or authorisation under which 
it is granted. In this case, the request of recognition shall be 
made at the next application for renewal or update of the 
safety certificate or authorisation. 
3. 
In the cases referred in Article 9(1)(c): 
(a) the statement of recognition for an entity in charge of 
maintenance shall be displayed on the relevant certificate 
in field 5 ‘Additional Information’ of the harmonised 
format of certificates for entities in charge of maintenance 
provided in Annex V, or in Annex VI where relevant, of 
Regulation (EU) No 445/2011; 
(b) the period of validity of recognition shall be limited to the 
validity of the certificate issued by the certification body 
under which it is granted. In this case, the request of recog­
nition shall be made at the next application for renewal or 
update of that certificate. 
Article 11 
Surveillance by recognition body 
1. 
By analogy to the requirements in Article 5(3) and (4) of 
Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 for accreditation, the recognition 
body shall conduct periodic surveillance in order to verify that 
the assessment body it recognised continues to satisfy the 
criteria set out in Annex II during the validity of the recog­
nition. 
2. 
If the assessment body no longer satisfies the criteria set 
out in Annex II, the recognition body shall limit the scope of 
application of the recognition, suspend or withdraw the recog­
nition, depending on the degree of non-compliance. 
Article 12 
Relaxed criteria where a significant change is not to be 
mutually recognised 
Where the risk assessment for a significant change is not to be 
mutually recognised, the proposer shall appoint an assessment 
body meeting at least the competency, independency and 
impartiality requirements of Annex II. The other requirements 
of paragraph 1 in Annex II may be relaxed in agreement with 
the national safety authority in a non-discriminatory way. 
Article 13 
Provision of information to the Agency 
1. 
Where applicable, by no later than 21 May 2015, Member 
States shall inform the Agency which is their national accredi­
tation body and/or recognition body or recognition bodies for 
the purposes of this Regulation, as well as of the assessment 
bodies they recognised in conformity with Article 9(1)(a). They 
shall also notify any change to that situation within one month 
of the change. The Agency shall make this information publicly 
available. 
2. 
By no later than 21 May 2015, the national accreditation 
body shall inform the Agency of the assessment bodies 
accredited, as well as of the area of competence for which 
those assessment bodies are accredited as provided for in 
points 2 and 3 of Annex II. They shall also notify any 
change to that situation within 1 month of the change. The 
Agency shall make this information publicly available. 
3. 
By no later than 21 May 2015, the recognition body shall 
inform the Agency of the assessment bodies recognised, as well 
as of the area of competence for which those assessment bodies 
are recognised as provided for in points 2 and 3 of Annex II. 
They shall also notify any change to that situation within 1 
month of the change. The Agency shall make this information 
publicly available. 
Article 14 
Support from the Agency to accreditation or recognition 
of the assessment body 
1. 
The Agency shall organise peer evaluations between the 
recognition bodies based on the same principles as set out in 
Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008. 
2. 
The Agency shall organise, in collaboration with the 
European cooperation for Accreditation (EA), training on this 
Regulation for the national accreditation bodies and for the 
recognition bodies at least at each new revision of this Regu­
lation. 
Article 15 
Safety assessment reports 
1. 
The assessment body shall provide the proposer with a 
safety assessment report in accordance with the requirements 
set out in Annex III. The proposer shall be responsible for 
determining if and how to take into account the conclusions 
of the safety assessment report for the safety acceptance of the 
assessed change. The proposer shall justify and document the 
part of the safety assessment report for which the proposer 
eventually disagrees. 
2. 
In the case referred to in point (b) of Article 2(3), in 
accordance with paragraph 5 of this Article, the declaration 
referred to in Article 16 shall be accepted by the national 
safety authority in its decision to authorise the placing in 
service of structural subsystems and vehicles. 
3. 
Without prejudice to Article 16 of Directive 2008/57/EC, 
the national safety authority may not request additional checks 
or risk analyses unless it is able to demonstrate the existence of 
a substantial safety risk. 
4. 
In the case referred to in point (a) of Article 2(3), in 
accordance with paragraph 5 of this Article, the declaration 
referred to in Article 16 shall be accepted by the notified 
body in charge of delivering the conformity certificate, unless 
it 
justifies 
and 
documents 
its 
doubts 
concerning 
the 
assumptions made or the appropriateness of the results.
EN 
L 121/14 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013 
( 1 ) OJ L 153, 14.6.2007, p. 9.
5. 
When a system or part of a system has already been 
accepted following the risk management process specified in 
this Regulation, the resulting safety assessment report shall 
not be called into question by any other assessment body in 
charge of performing a new assessment for the same system. 
Mutual recognition shall be conditional upon demonstration 
that the system will be used under the same functional, oper­
ational and environmental conditions as the already accepted 
system, and that equivalent risk acceptance criteria have been 
applied. 
Article 16 
Declaration by the proposer 
Based on the results of the application of this Regulation and 
on the safety assessment report provided by the assessment 
body, the proposer shall produce a written declaration that all 
identified hazards and associated risks are controlled to an 
acceptable level. 
Article 17 
Risk control management and audits 
1. 
The railway undertakings and infrastructure managers 
shall include audits of the application of this Regulation in 
their recurrent auditing scheme for the safety management 
system as referred to in Article 9 of Directive 2004/49/EC. 
2. 
The entities in charge of maintenance shall include audits 
of the application of this Regulation in their recurrent auditing 
scheme for the system of maintenance as referred to in 
Article 14a(3) of Directive 2004/49/EC. 
3. 
As part of the tasks defined in Article 16(2)(e) of Directive 
2004/49/EC, the national safety authority shall supervise the 
application of this Regulation by railway undertakings, infra­
structure managers and the entities in charge of maintenance 
that do not fall within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 
445/2011 but are identified in its National Vehicle Register. 
4. 
As part of the tasks defined in Article 7(1) of Regulation 
(EU) No 445/2011, the certification body of an entity in charge 
of maintenance of freight wagons shall perform surveillance of 
the application of this Regulation by the entity in charge of 
maintenance. 
Article 18 
Feedback and technical progress 
1. 
Each infrastructure manager and each railway undertaking 
shall, in its annual safety report referred to in Article 9(4) of 
Directive 2004/49/EC, report briefly on its experience with the 
application of this Regulation. The report shall also include a 
synthesis of the decisions on the level of significance of the 
changes. 
2. 
Each national safety authority shall, in its annual safety 
report referred to in Article 18 of Directive 2004/49/EC, report 
on the experience of the proposers with the application of this 
Regulation, and, where appropriate, its own experience. 
3. 
The annual maintenance report of entities in charge of 
maintenance of freight wagons referred to in point I(7)(4)(k) 
in Annex III to Regulation (EU) No 445/2011, shall include 
information about the experience of entities in charge of main­
tenance in applying this Regulation. The Agency shall gather 
this information in coordination with the respective certification 
bodies. 
4. 
The other entities in charge of maintenance that do not 
fall within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 445/2011 shall also 
share their experience with the Agency on the application of 
this Regulation. The Agency shall coordinate the sharing of 
experience with these entities in charge of maintenance and 
with the national safety authorities. 
5. 
The Agency shall collect all information on the experience 
of the application of this Regulation and shall, when necessary, 
make recommendations to the Commission with a view to 
improving this Regulation. 
6. 
Before 21 May 2018 the Agency shall submit to the 
Commission a report containing: 
(a) an analysis of the experience with the application of this 
Regulation, including cases where the CSM has been applied 
by proposers on a voluntary basis before the relevant date 
of application provided for in Article 20; 
(b) an analysis of the experience of proposers concerning 
decisions on the level of significance of changes; 
(c) an analysis of the cases where codes of practice have been 
used as set out in point 2.3.8 of Annex I; 
(d) an analysis of the experience with the accreditation and 
recognition of assessment bodies; 
(e) an analysis of the overall effectiveness of this Regulation. 
The national safety authorities shall support the Agency in 
collecting such information. 
Article 19 
Repeal 
Regulation (EC) No 352/2009 is repealed with effect from 
21 May 2015. 
References to the repealed Regulation shall be construed as 
references to this Regulation. 
Article 20 
Entry into force and application 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day 
following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
It shall apply from 21 May 2015.
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/15
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 30 April 2013. 
For the Commission 
The President 
José Manuel BARROSO
EN 
L 121/16 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013
ANNEX I 
1. 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 
1.1. 
General principles and obligations 
1.1.1. The risk management process shall start from a definition of the system under assessment and comprise the 
following activities: 
(a) the risk assessment process, which shall identify the hazards, the risks, the associated safety measures and the 
resulting safety requirements to be fulfilled by the system under assessment; 
(b) demonstration of the compliance of the system with the identified safety requirements; and 
(c) management of all identified hazards and the associated safety measures. 
This risk management process is iterative and is depicted in the diagram of the Appendix. The process ends when 
compliance of the system with all the safety requirements necessary to accept the risks linked to the identified 
hazards is demonstrated. 
1.1.2. The risk management process shall include appropriate quality assurance activities and be carried out by competent 
staff. It shall be independently assessed by one or more assessment bodies. 
1.1.3. The proposer in charge of the risk management process shall maintain a hazard record in accordance with point 4. 
1.1.4. The actors who already have in place methods or tools for risk assessment may continue to apply them if such 
methods or tools are compatible with the provisions of this Regulation and subject to the following conditions: 
(a) the risk assessment methods or tools are described in a safety management system accepted by a national 
safety authority in accordance with Article 10(2)(a) or Article 11(1)(a) of Directive 2004/49/EC; or 
(b) the risk assessment methods or tools are required by a TSI or comply with publicly available recognised 
standards specified in notified national rules. 
1.1.5. Without prejudice to civil liability in accordance with the legal requirements of the Member States, the risk 
assessment process shall fall within the responsibility of the proposer. In particular the proposer shall decide, 
with agreement of the actors concerned, who will be in charge of fulfilling the safety requirements resulting from 
the risk assessment. The safety requirements assigned by the proposer to those actors shall not go beyond the 
scope of their responsibility and domain of control. This decision shall depend on the type of safety measures 
selected to control the risks to an acceptable level. The demonstration of compliance with the safety requirements 
shall be conducted in accordance with point 3. 
1.1.6. The first step of the risk management process shall be to identify in a document, to be drawn up by the proposer, 
the different actors’ tasks, and their risk management activities. The proposer is responsible for coordinating close 
collaboration between the different actors involved, according to their respective tasks, in order to manage the 
hazards and their associated safety measures. 
1.1.7. Evaluation of the correct application of the risk management process falls within the responsibility of the 
assessment body. 
1.2. 
Interfaces management 
1.2.1. For each interface relevant to the system under assessment and without prejudice to specifications of interfaces 
defined in relevant TSIs, the rail-sector actors concerned shall cooperate in order to identify and manage jointly the 
hazards and related safety measures that need to be handled at these interfaces. The management of shared risks at 
the interfaces shall be coordinated by the proposer. 
1.2.2. If, in order to fulfil a safety requirement, an actor identifies the need for a safety measure that it cannot implement 
itself, it shall, after agreement with another actor, transfer the management of the related hazard to the latter in 
accordance with the process set out in point 4.
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/17
1.2.3. For the system under assessment, any actor who discovers that a safety measure is non-compliant or inadequate is 
responsible for notifying it to the proposer, who shall in turn inform the actor implementing the safety measure. 
1.2.4. The actor implementing the safety measure shall then inform all the actors affected by the problem either within 
the system under assessment or, as far as known by the actor, within other existing systems using the same safety 
measure. 
1.2.5. When agreement cannot be reached between two or more actors it is the responsibility of the proposer to find a 
solution. 
1.2.6. When a requirement in a notified national rule cannot be fulfilled by an actor, the proposer shall seek advice from 
the relevant competent authority. 
1.2.7. Independently from the definition of the system under assessment, the proposer is responsible for ensuring that 
the risk management covers the system itself and its integration into the railway system as a whole. 
2. 
DESCRIPTION OF THE RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS 
2.1. 
General description 
2.1.1. The risk assessment process is the overall iterative process that comprises: 
(a) the system definition; 
(b) the risk analysis including the hazard identification; 
(c) the risk evaluation. 
The risk assessment process shall interact with hazard management in accordance with point 4.1. 
2.1.2. The system definition shall address at least the following issues: 
(a) system objective (intended purpose); 
(b) system functions and elements, where relevant (including human, technical and operational elements); 
(c) system boundary including other interacting systems; 
(d) physical (interacting systems) and functional (functional input and output) interfaces; 
(e) system environment (for example energy and thermal flow, shocks, vibrations, electromagnetic interference, 
operational use); 
(f) existing safety measures and, after the necessary relevant iterations, definition of the safety requirements 
identified by the risk assessment process; 
(g) assumptions that determine the limits for the risk assessment. 
2.1.3. A hazard identification shall be carried out on the defined system, in accordance with point 2.2. 
2.1.4. The risk acceptability of the system under assessment shall be evaluated by using one or more of the following risk 
acceptance principles: 
(a) the application of codes of practice (point 2.3); 
(b) a comparison with similar systems (point 2.4); 
(c) an explicit risk estimation (point 2.5). 
In accordance with the principle referred to in point 1.1.5, the assessment body shall refrain from imposing the 
risk acceptance principle to be used by the proposer. 
2.1.5. The proposer shall demonstrate in the risk evaluation that the selected risk acceptance principle is adequately 
applied. The proposer shall also check that the selected risk acceptance principles are used consistently.
EN 
L 121/18 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013
2.1.6. The application of these risk acceptance principles shall identify possible safety measures that make the risk(s) of 
the system under assessment acceptable. Among these safety measures, those selected to control the risk(s) shall 
become the safety requirements to be fulfilled by the system. Compliance with these safety requirements shall be 
demonstrated in accordance with point 3. 
2.1.7. The iterative risk assessment process is considered to be completed when it is demonstrated that all safety 
requirements are fulfilled and no additional reasonably foreseeable hazards have to be considered. 
2.2. 
Hazard identification 
2.2.1. The proposer shall systematically identify, using wide-ranging expertise from a competent team, all reasonably 
foreseeable hazards for the whole system under assessment, its functions where appropriate and its interfaces. 
All identified hazards shall be registered in the hazard record in accordance with point 4. 
2.2.2. To focus the risk assessment efforts upon the most important risks, the hazards shall be classified according to the 
estimated risk arising from them. Based on expert judgement, hazards associated with a broadly acceptable risk 
need not be analysed further but shall be registered in the hazard record. Their classification shall be justified in 
order to allow independent assessment by an assessment body. 
2.2.3. As a criterion, risks resulting from hazards may be classified as broadly acceptable when the risk is so small that it 
is not reasonable to implement any additional safety measure. The expert judgement shall take into account that 
the contribution of all the broadly acceptable risks does not exceed a defined proportion of the overall risk. 
2.2.4. During the hazard identification, safety measures may be identified. They shall be registered in the hazard record in 
accordance with point 4. 
2.2.5. The hazard identification only needs to be carried out at a level of detail necessary to identify where safety 
measures are expected to control the risks in accordance with one of the risk acceptance principles referred to 
in point 2.1.4. Iteration may be necessary between the risk analysis and the risk evaluation phases until a sufficient 
level of detail is reached for the identification of hazards. 
2.2.6. Whenever a code of practice or a reference system is used to control the risk, hazard identification may be limited 
to: 
(a) verification of the relevance of the code of practice or reference system; 
(b) identification of the deviations from the code of practice or from the reference system. 
2.3. 
Use of codes of practice and risk evaluation 
2.3.1. The proposer, with the support of other involved actors, shall analyse whether one, several or all hazards are 
appropriately covered by the application of relevant codes of practice. 
2.3.2. The codes of practice shall satisfy at least the following requirements: 
(a) They must be widely recognised in the railway domain. If this is not the case, the codes of practice will have to 
be justified and be acceptable to the assessment body; 
(b) They must be relevant for the control of the considered hazards in the system under assessment. Successful 
application of a code of practice for similar cases to manage changes and control effectively the identified 
hazards of a system in the sense of this Regulation is sufficient for it to be considered as relevant; 
(c) Upon request, they must be available to assessment bodies for them to either assess or, where relevant, 
mutually recognise, in accordance with Article 15(5), the suitability of both the application of the risk 
management process and of its results. 
2.3.3. Where compliance with TSIs is required by Directive 2008/57/EC and the relevant TSI does not impose the risk 
management process established by this Regulation, the TSIs may be considered as codes of practice for controlling 
hazards, provided requirement (b) of point 2.3.2 is fulfilled. 
2.3.4. National rules notified in accordance with Article 8 of Directive 2004/49/EC and Article 17(3) of Directive 
2008/57/EC may be considered as codes of practice provided the requirements of point 2.3.2 are fulfilled.
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/19
2.3.5. If one or more hazards are controlled by codes of practice fulfilling the requirements of point 2.3.2, then the risks 
associated with these hazards shall be considered acceptable. This means that: 
(a) these risks need not be analysed further; 
(b) the use of the codes of practice shall be registered in the hazard record as safety requirements for the relevant 
hazards. 
2.3.6. Where an alternative approach is not fully compliant with a code of practice, the proposer shall demonstrate that 
the alternative approach pursued leads to at least the same level of safety. 
2.3.7. If the risk for a particular hazard cannot be made acceptable by the application of codes of practice, additional 
safety measures shall be identified by applying one of the two other risk acceptance principles. 
2.3.8. When all hazards are controlled by codes of practice, the risk management process may be limited to: 
(a) hazard identification in accordance with point 2.2.6; 
(b) registration of the use of the codes of practice in the hazard record in accordance with point 2.3.5; 
(c) documentation of the application of the risk management process in accordance with point 5; 
(d) an independent assessment in accordance with Article 6. 
2.4. 
Use of reference system and risk evaluation 
2.4.1. The proposer, with the support of other involved actors, shall analyse whether one, several or all hazards are 
appropriately covered by a similar system that could be taken as a reference system. 
2.4.2. A reference system shall satisfy at least the following requirements: 
(a) it has already been proven in-use to have an acceptable safety level and would therefore still qualify for 
approval in the Member State where the change is to be introduced; 
(b) it has similar functions and interfaces as the system under assessment; 
(c) it is used under similar operational conditions as the system under assessment; 
(d) it is used under similar environmental conditions as the system under assessment. 
2.4.3. If a reference system fulfils the requirements listed in point 2.4.2, then for the system under assessment: 
(a) the risks associated with the hazards covered by the reference system shall be considered as acceptable; 
(b) the safety requirements for the hazards covered by the reference system may be derived from the safety 
analyses or from an evaluation of safety records of the reference system; 
(c) these safety requirements shall be registered in the hazard record as safety requirements for the relevant 
hazards. 
2.4.4. If the system under assessment deviates from the reference system, the risk evaluation shall demonstrate that the 
system under assessment reaches at least the same safety level as the reference system, applying another reference 
system or one of the two other risk acceptance principles. The risks associated with the hazards covered by the 
reference system shall, in that case, be considered as acceptable. 
2.4.5. If at least the same safety level as the reference system cannot be demonstrated, additional safety measures shall be 
identified for the deviations, applying one of the two other risk acceptance principles. 
2.5. 
Explicit risk estimation and evaluation 
2.5.1. If the hazards are not covered by one of the two risk acceptance principles laid down in points 2.3 and 2.4, the 
demonstration of risk acceptability shall be performed by explicit risk estimation and evaluation. Risks resulting 
from these hazards shall be estimated either quantitatively or qualitatively, taking existing safety measures into 
account.
EN 
L 121/20 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013
2.5.2. The acceptability of the estimated risks shall be evaluated using risk acceptance criteria either derived from or 
based on requirements contained in Union legislation or in notified national rules. Depending on the risk 
acceptance criteria, the acceptability of the risk may be evaluated either individually for each associated hazard 
or the combination of all hazards as a whole considered in the explicit risk estimation. 
If the estimated risk is not acceptable, additional safety measures shall be identified and implemented in order to 
reduce the risk to an acceptable level. 
2.5.3. If the risk associated with one hazard or a combination of several hazards is considered acceptable, the identified 
safety measures shall be registered in the hazard record. 
2.5.4. If hazards arise from failures of technical systems not covered by codes of practice or the use of a reference system, 
the following risk acceptance criterion shall apply for the design of the technical system: 
For technical systems where a functional failure has a credible direct potential for a catastrophic consequence, the 
associated risk does not have to be reduced further if the rate of that failure is less than or equal to 10 –9 per 
operating hour. 
2.5.5. Without prejudice to the procedure specified in Article 8 of Directive 2004/49/EC, a more demanding criterion 
then the one laid down in point 2.5.4 may be requested, through a notified national safety rule, in order to 
maintain a national safety level. In the case of additional authorisations for placing in service of vehicles, the 
procedures of Articles 23 and 25 of Directive 2008/57/EC shall apply. 
2.5.6. If a technical system is developed by applying the 10 –9 criterion laid down in point 2.5.4, the principle of mutual 
recognition is applicable in accordance with Article 15(5). 
Nevertheless, if the proposer can demonstrate that the national safety level in the Member State of application can 
be maintained with a rate of failure higher than 10 –9 per operating hour, this criterion may be used by the 
proposer in that Member State. 
2.5.7. The explicit risk estimation and evaluation shall satisfy at least the following requirements: 
(a) the methods used for explicit risk estimation shall reflect correctly the system under assessment and its 
parameters (including all operational modes); 
(b) the results shall be sufficiently accurate to serve as robust decision support. Minor changes in input 
assumptions or prerequisites shall not result in significantly different requirements. 
3. 
DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 
3.1. 
Prior to the safety acceptance of the change, fulfilment of the safety requirements resulting from the risk 
assessment phase shall be demonstrated under the supervision of the proposer. 
3.2. 
This demonstration shall be carried out by each of the actors responsible for fulfilling the safety requirements, as 
decided in accordance with point 1.1.5. 
3.3. 
The approach chosen for demonstrating compliance with the safety requirements as well as the demonstration 
itself shall be independently assessed by an assessment body. 
3.4. 
Any inadequacy of safety measures expected to fulfil the safety requirements or any hazards discovered during the 
demonstration of compliance with the safety requirements shall lead to reassessment and evaluation of the 
associated risks by the proposer in accordance with point 2. The new hazards shall be registered in the hazard 
record in accordance with point 4. 
4. 
HAZARD MANAGEMENT 
4.1. 
Hazard management process 
4.1.1. Hazard record(s) shall be created or updated (where they already exist) by the proposer during design and 
implementation until acceptance of the change or delivery of the safety assessment report. A hazard record 
shall track the progress in monitoring risks associated with the identified hazards. Once the system has been 
accepted and is in operation, the hazard record shall be further maintained by the infrastructure manager or the 
railway undertaking in charge of the operation of the system under assessment as an integrated part of its safety 
management system.
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/21
4.1.2. The hazard record shall include all hazards, together with all related safety measures and system assumptions 
identified during the risk assessment process. It shall contains a clear reference to the origin of the hazards and to 
the selected risk acceptance principles and clearly identify the actor(s) in charge of controlling each hazard. 
4.2. 
Exchange of information 
All hazards and related safety requirements that cannot be controlled by one actor alone shall be communicated to 
another relevant actor in order to find jointly an adequate solution. The hazards registered in the hazard record of 
the actor who transfers them shall only be regarded as controlled when the evaluation of the risks associated with 
these hazards is made by the other actor and the solution is agreed by all concerned. 
5. 
EVIDENCE FROM THE APPLICATION OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 
5.1. 
The risk management process used to assess the safety levels and compliance with safety requirements shall be 
documented by the proposer in such a way that all the necessary evidence showing the suitability of both the 
application of the risk management process and of its results are accessible to an assessment body. 
5.2. 
The documentation produced by the proposer under point 5.1 shall at least include: 
(a) a description of the organisation and the experts appointed to carry out the risk assessment process; 
(b) results of the different phases of the risk assessment and a list of all the necessary safety requirements to be 
fulfilled in order to control the risk to an acceptable level; 
(c) evidence of compliance with all the necessary safety requirements; 
(d) all assumptions relevant for system integration, operation or maintenance, which were made during system 
definition, design and risk assessment. 
5.3. 
The assessment body shall establish its conclusion in a safety assessment report as defined in Annex III.
EN 
L 121/22 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013
Appendix 
Risk management process and independent assessment
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/23
ANNEX II 
CRITERIA FOR ACCREDITATION OR RECOGNITION OF THE ASSESSMENT BODY 
1. The assessment body shall fulfil all requirements of the ISO/IEC 17020:2012 standard and of its subsequent amend­
ments. The assessment body shall exercise professional judgement in performing the inspection work defined in that 
standard. The assessment body shall fulfil both the general criteria concerning competence and independence in that 
standard and the following specific competence criteria: 
(a) competence in risk management: knowledge and experience of the standard safety analysis techniques and of the 
relevant standards; 
(b) all relevant competences for assessing the parts of the railway system affected by the change; 
(c) competence in the correct application of safety and quality management systems or in auditing management 
systems. 
2. By analogy to Article 28 of Directive 2008/57/EC concerning the notification of notified bodies, the assessment body 
shall be accredited or recognised for the different areas of competence within the railway system, or parts of it for 
which an essential safety requirement exists, including the area of competence involving the operation and main­
tenance of the railway system. 
3. The assessment body shall be accredited or recognised for assessing the overall consistency of the risk management 
and the safe integration of the system under assessment into the railway system as a whole. This shall include 
competence of the assessment body in checking the following: 
(a) organisation, that is the arrangements necessary to ensure a coordinated approach to achieving system safety 
through a uniform understanding and application of risk control measures for subsystems; 
(b) methodology, that is evaluation of the methods and resources deployed by various stakeholders to support safety 
at subsystem and system level; and 
(c) the technical aspects necessary for assessing the relevance and completeness of risk assessments and the level of 
safety for the system as a whole. 
4. The assessment body may be accredited or recognised for one, several or all of the areas of competence listed in points 
2 and 3.
EN 
L 121/24 
Official Journal of the European Union 
3.5.2013
ANNEX III 
SAFETY ASSESSMENT REPORT OF THE ASSESSMENT BODY 
The safety assessment report of the assessment body shall contain at least the following information: 
(a) identification of the assessment body; 
(b) the independent assessment plan; 
(c) the definition of the scope of the independent assessment as well as its limitations; 
(d) the results of the independent assessment including in particular: 
(i) detailed information on the independent assessment activities for checking the compliance with the provisions of 
this Regulation; 
(ii) any identified cases of non-compliances with the provisions of this Regulation and the assessment body’s recom­
mendations; 
(e) the conclusions of the independent assessment.
EN 
3.5.2013 
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 121/25
