II
(Non-legislative acts)
REGULATIONS
COUNCIL IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2022/375 
of 3 March 2022
implementing Regulation (EU) No 208/2014 concerning restrictive measures directed against certain 
persons, entities and bodies in view of the situation in Ukraine 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EU) No 208/2014 of 5 March 2014 concerning restrictive measures directed against 
certain persons, entities and bodies in view of the situation in Ukraine (1), in particular Article 14(1) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy,
Whereas:
(1)
On 5 March 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 208/2014.
(2)
On the basis of a review by the Council, the information in Annex I to that Regulation regarding the rights of defence 
and the right to effective judicial protection should be updated.
(3)
Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 208/2014 should therefore be amended accordingly,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 208/2014 is amended as set out in the Annex to this Regulation.
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 3 March 2022.
For the Council
The President
G. DARMANIN
(1) OJ L 66, 6.3.2014, p. 1.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2022 
L 70/1  
ANNEX 
Section B (‘Rights of defence and right to effective judicial protection’) of Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 208/2014 is 
replaced by the following:
‘B.
Rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection
The rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection under the Code of Criminal Procedure of 
Ukraine
Article 42 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine (“Code of Criminal Procedure”) provides that every person who is 
suspected or accused in criminal proceedings enjoys rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection. These 
include: the right to be informed of the criminal offence of which he has been suspected or accused; the right to be 
informed, expressly and promptly, of his rights under the Code of Criminal Procedure; the right to have, when first 
requested, access to a defence lawyer; the right to present petitions for procedural actions; and the right to challenge 
decisions, actions and omissions by the investigator, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge.
Article 303 of the Code of Criminal Procedure distinguishes between decisions and omissions that can be challenged during 
the pre-trial proceedings (first paragraph) and decisions, acts and omissions that can be considered in court during 
preparatory proceedings (second paragraph). Article 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that complaints 
against decisions, acts or omissions of the investigator or public prosecutor must be considered by an investigating judge 
of a local Court in the presence of the complainant or his defence lawyer or legal representative. Article 308 of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure provides that complaints regarding failure by the investigator or public prosecutor to respect 
reasonable time during the pre-trial investigation may be lodged with a superior public prosecutor and must be considered 
within three days of being lodged. In addition, Article 309 of the Code of Criminal Procedure specifies the decisions of 
investigating judges that may be challenged on appeal, and that other decisions may be subject to judicial review in the 
course of preparatory proceedings in Court. Moreover, a number of procedural investigating actions are only possible 
subject to a ruling by the investigating judge or a Court (e.g. seizure of property under Articles 167 – 175, and measures 
of detention under Articles 176 – 178, of the Code of Criminal Procedure).
Application of the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of each of the listed persons
1.
Viktor Fedorovych Yanukovych
The criminal proceedings relating to the misappropriation of public funds or assets are still ongoing.
The information on the Council’s file shows that the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of Mr 
Yanukovych, including the fundamental right to have his case heard within a reasonable time by an independent and 
impartial tribunal, were respected in the criminal proceedings on which the Council relied. This is demonstrated in 
particular by the decision of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine of 10 August 2020 in criminal proceeding 
No 42016000000000785 in which the Court examined the petition of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine 
and granted permission to apprehend Mr Yanukovych. In the Court’s ruling, the investigating judge confirmed that there is 
a reasonable suspicion for Mr Yanukovych’s involvement in a criminal offence relating to misappropriation and confirmed 
Mr Yanukovych’s status as suspect in the criminal proceedings.
The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court also established that Mr Yanukovych has been staying outside Ukraine since 2014. 
The Court concluded that there were sufficient grounds to believe that Mr Yanukovych was hiding from the pre-trial 
investigation bodies.
Additionally, on 15 September 2021, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine followed the motion of the National 
Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and granted permission for the detention of Mr Yanukovych. In that decision, the 
investigating judge confirmed the conclusions of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine of 10 August 2020.
In criminal proceeding No 42015000000002833, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine in its ruling 
of 25 August 2021 granted permission to conduct a special pre-trial investigation in relation to Mr Yanukovych. In that 
ruling, the investigating judge confirmed the status of suspect of Mr Yanukovych and concluded that the evidence gives 
reasonable grounds for suspicion that Mr Yanukovych committed the criminal offences of which he is suspected. The judge 
also concluded that there are reasonable grounds to believe that Mr. Yanukovych is deliberately evading the investigation 
and the court in order to avoid criminal liability. Furthermore, in its ruling of 7 October 2021 the Supreme Anti- 
Corruption Court of Ukraine imposed detention in custody on Mr Yanukovych. In the ruling, the Court confirmed the 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 70/2 
4.3.2022  
status of suspect of Mr Yanukovych as well as the reasonable grounds for suspicion that Mr Yanukovych committed 
criminal offences. The judge also highlighted that there is a risk of Mr Yanukovych hiding from the investigation and the 
court to avoid criminal liability.
The Council has information that on 29 December 2021 the prosecutor considered that the evidence gathered during the 
pre-trial investigation was sufficient to draw up an indictment and Mr Yanukovych and his lawyers were notified about the 
completion of the pre-trial investigation. The defence was granted access to the materials of the pre-trial investigation for 
familiarisation, in line with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine.
In accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council considers that the periods during 
which Mr Yanukovych has been avoiding investigation must be excluded from the calculation of the period relevant for the 
assessment of respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Council therefore considers that the 
circumstances described in the decision of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court attributed to Mr Yanukovych have 
significantly contributed to the length of the investigation.
2.
Vitalii Yuriyovych Zakharchenko
The criminal proceedings relating to the misappropriation of public funds or assets are still ongoing.
The information on the Council’s file shows that the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of Mr 
Zakharchenko, including the fundamental right to have his case heard within a reasonable time by an independent and 
impartial tribunal, were respected in the criminal proceedings on which the Council relied. This is demonstrated in 
particular by the decisions of the investigating judge of 19 April 2021 ordering detention in custody of Mr Zakharchenko 
as well as the ruling of the Pecherskyi District Court of Kyiv dated 10 August 2021 granting permission to carry out a 
special pre-trial investigation in criminal proceeding No 42016000000002929. Those decisions of the investigating 
judges confirm the status of suspect of Mr Zakharchenko and highlight that the suspect is hiding from the investigation to 
avoid criminal liability.
Moreover, the Council has information that the Ukrainian authorities took measures to search for Mr Zakharchenko. 
On 12 February 2020, the investigating body decided to put Mr Zakharchenko on the international wanted list and 
forwarded the request to the Department of International Police Cooperation of the National Police of Ukraine for entry 
into the Interpol database. Additionally, on 11 May 2021, Ukraine sent a request for international legal assistance to the 
Russian Federation to establish the whereabouts of Mr Zakharchenko, which was rejected by Russia on 31 August 2021.
No violation of the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection can be ascertained in the circumstances 
where the defence is not exercising those rights.
In accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council considers that the periods during 
which Mr Zakharchenko has been avoiding investigation must be excluded from the calculation of the period relevant for 
the assessment of respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Council therefore considers that the 
circumstances described above attributed to Mr Zakharchenko have significantly contributed to the length of the 
investigation.
3.
Viktor Pavlovych Pshonka
The criminal proceedings relating to the misappropriation of public funds or assets are still ongoing.
The information on the Council’s file shows that the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of Mr V. 
Pshonka, including the fundamental right to have his case heard within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial 
tribunal, were respected in the criminal proceedings on which the Council relied. This is demonstrated in particular by the 
decision of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine of 2 October 2020, which dismissed the appeal submitted by 
Mr V. Pshonka’s lawyers to cancel the notice of suspicion dated 22 December 2014. The Court concluded that the notice 
of suspicion was served in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine and confirmed Mr V. Pshonka’s 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2022 
L 70/3  
status as suspect in the criminal proceedings. Additionally, on 7 May 2020 and 9 November 2020, the Supreme Anti- 
Corruption Court of Ukraine rejected a request to open proceedings made on the basis of a complaint by lawyers regarding 
inaction by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in the criminal proceedings. The Appellate Chamber of the 
Supreme Anti-Corruption Court confirmed those decisions on 1 June 2020 and 26 November 2020, respectively.
Furthermore, on 16 February 2021 the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine dismissed the appeal of the lawyers to 
cancel the resolution of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the suspension of the pre-trial investigation 
dated 14 January 2021. In that decision the Court confirmed the status of suspect of Mr V. Pshonka. Additionally, 
on 11 March 2021, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine dismissed the complaint of Mr V. Pshonka’s lawyers 
concerning the inaction of the prosecutor.
The Council has information that the Ukrainian authorities took measures to search for Mr V. Pshonka. On 24 July 2020, a 
request for international legal assistance was sent to the competent authorities of the Russian Federation to establish the 
whereabouts of Mr V. Pshonka and to interrogate him. That request was rejected by Russia. Previously, the Russian 
authorities rejected requests for international legal assistance sent to them in 2016 and 2018.
In accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council considers that the periods during 
which Mr V. Pshonka has been avoiding investigation must be excluded from the calculation of the period relevant for the 
assessment of respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Council therefore considers that the 
circumstances described in the decision of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court attributed to Mr V. Pshonka as well as the 
earlier non-execution of the requests for international legal assistance have significantly contributed to the length of the 
investigation.
6.
Viktor Ivanovych Ratushniak
The criminal proceedings relating to the misappropriation of public funds or assets are still ongoing.
The information on the Council’s file shows that the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of Mr 
Ratushniak, including the fundamental right to have his case heard within a reasonable time by an independent and 
impartial tribunal, were respected in the criminal proceedings on which the Council relied. This is demonstrated in 
particular by the decisions of the investigating judge of 19 April 2021 ordering detention in custody on Mr Ratushniak as 
well as the ruling of the Pecherskyi District Court of Kyiv dated 10 August 2021 granting permission to carry out a special 
pre-trial investigation in criminal proceeding No 42016000000002929. Those decisions of the investigating judges 
confirm the status of suspect of Mr Ratushniak and highlight that the suspect is hiding from the investigation to avoid 
criminal liability.
The Council has information that the Ukrainian authorities took measures to search for Mr Ratushniak. 
On 12 February 2020, the investigating body decided to put Mr Ratushniak on the international wanted list and forwarded 
the request to the Department of International Police Cooperation of the National Police of Ukraine for entry into the 
Interpol database. Additionally, on 11 May 2021 Ukraine sent a request for international legal assistance to the Russian 
Federation to establish the whereabouts of Mr Ratushniak, which was rejected by Russia on 31 August 2021.
No violation of the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection can be ascertained in the circumstances 
where the defence is not exercising those rights.
In accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council considers that the periods during 
which Mr Ratushniak has been avoiding investigation must be excluded from the calculation of the period relevant for the 
assessment of respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Council therefore considers that the 
circumstances described above attributed to Mr Ratushniak have significantly contributed to the length of the investigation.
7.
Oleksandr Viktorovych Yanukovych
The criminal proceedings relating to the misappropriation of public funds or assets are still ongoing.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 70/4 
4.3.2022  
The information on the Council’s file shows that the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of Mr O. 
Yanukovych, including the fundamental right to have his case heard within a reasonable time by an independent and 
impartial tribunal, were respected in the criminal proceedings on which the Council relied. This is demonstrated in 
particular by the decisions of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine. In criminal proceeding 
No 42015000000002833, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine in its ruling of 25 August 2021 granted 
permission to conduct a special pre-trial investigation in relation to Mr O. Yanukovych. In that ruling, the investigating 
judge confirmed the status of suspect of Mr O. Yanukovych and concluded that the evidence gives reasonable grounds for 
suspicion that Mr O. Yanukovych committed the criminal offences of which he is suspected. The judge also concluded that 
there is reasonable ground to believe that Mr. O. Yanukovych is deliberately evading the investigation and the court in order 
to avoid criminal liability.
Furthermore, in its ruling of 13 October 2021 the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine imposed detention in 
custody on Mr O. Yanukovych. In the ruling the Court confirmed the status of suspect of Mr O. Yanukovych as well as the 
reasonable grounds for suspicion that Mr O. Yanukovych committed criminal offences. The judge also highlighted that 
there is a risk of hiding from investigation and the court to avoid criminal liability.
The Council has information that on 29 December 2021 the prosecutor considered the evidence gathered during the pre- 
trial investigation was sufficient to draw up an indictment and Mr O. Yanukovych and his lawyers were notified about the 
completion of the pre-trial investigation. The defence was granted access to the materials of the pre-trial investigation for 
familiarisation, in line with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine.
The Council has information that the Ukrainian authorities took measures to search for Mr O. Yanukovych, who is staying 
in the Russian Federation and avoiding investigation.
In accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council considers that the periods during 
which Mr O. Yanukovych has been avoiding investigation must be excluded from the calculation of the period relevant for 
the assessment of respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Council therefore considers that the 
circumstances described above attributed to Mr O. Yanukovych have significantly contributed to the length of the 
investigation.
9.
Artem Viktorovych Pshonka
The criminal proceedings relating to the misappropriation of public funds or assets are still ongoing.
The information on the Council’s file shows that the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of Mr A. 
Pshonka, including the fundamental right to have his case heard within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial 
tribunal, were respected in the criminal proceedings on which the Council relied. This is demonstrated in particular by the 
decision of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine of 8 July 2020, which dismissed the appeal submitted by Mr A. 
Pshonka’s lawyers to cancel the resolution of the prosecutor dated 30 April 2015 on the suspension of the pre-trial 
investigation. The Court also concluded that the notice of suspicion was served in accordance with the Code of Criminal 
Procedure of Ukraine and confirmed Mr A. Pshonka’s status as suspect in the criminal proceedings.
Furthermore, on 10 February 2021, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine dismissed the appeal of the lawyers to 
cancel the resolution of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the suspension of the pre-trial investigation 
dated 14 January 2021. In that decision the Court confirmed the status of suspect of Mr A. Pshonka. Additionally, 
on 11 March 2021, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine dismissed the complaint of Mr A. Pshonka’s lawyers 
concerning the inaction of the prosecutor.
The Council has information that the Ukrainian authorities took measures to search for Mr A. Pshonka. On 24 July 2020, a 
request for international legal assistance was sent to the competent authorities of the Russian Federation to establish the 
whereabouts of the suspect and to interrogate him. That request was rejected by Russia. Previously, the Russian authorities 
rejected the request for international legal assistance sent to them in 2018.
In accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council considers that the periods during 
which Mr A. Pshonka has been avoiding investigation must be excluded from the calculation of the period relevant for the 
assessment of respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Council therefore considers that the 
circumstances described in the decision of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court attributed to Mr A. Pshonka as well as to 
an earlier non-execution of the request for international legal assistance have significantly contributed to the length of the 
investigation.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
4.3.2022 
L 70/5  
12. Serhiy Vitalyovych Kurchenko
The criminal proceedings relating to the misappropriation of public funds or assets are still ongoing.
The information on the Council’s file shows that the rights of defence and the right to effective judicial protection of Mr 
Kurchenko, including the fundamental right to have his case heard within a reasonable time by an independent and 
impartial tribunal, were respected in the criminal proceedings on which the Council relied. This is demonstrated in 
particular by the fact that the defence was notified about the completion of the pre-trial investigation in criminal 
proceeding No 42016000000003393 on 28 March 2019 and was provided access to the materials for familiarisation. 
The Council has information that the familiarisation by the defence is ongoing. On 11 October 2021, the National Anti- 
Corruption Bureau of Ukraine additionally informed the defence lawyers of Mr Kurchenko about the completion of the 
pre-trial investigation and the provision of access to the materials of the pre-trial investigation for familiarisation. The 
Council received information that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine filed a motion to establish a term for 
the review by the defence party in order to address the delay of the defence party in reviewing the materials of the pre-trial 
investigation.
In relation to criminal proceeding No 12014160020000076, in its decision of 18 September 2020, the Odessa Court of 
Appeal granted the appeal by the prosecutor and imposed a preventive measure of detention in custody on Mr Kurchenko. 
The Court also stated that Mr Kurchenko departed Ukraine in 2014 and that his location cannot be established. The Court 
concluded that Mr Kurchenko is hiding from the pre-trial investigation bodies in order to avoid criminal liability. 
On 20 December 2021, the Kyivskyi District Court of Odesa City granted permission to carry out a special pre-trial 
investigation in absentia. Furthermore, on 20 October 2021 the Kyivskyi District Court of Odesa City dismissed the appeal 
of the lawyers to cancel the resolution of the prosecutor on the suspension of the pre-trial investigation dated 27 July 2021.
The Council has information that the Ukrainian authorities took measures to search for Mr Kurchenko. On 13 May 2021, 
the Main Department of the National Police in Odessa Region forwarded the request to the Ukrainian Bureau of Interpol 
and Europol to publish a Red Notice concerning Mr Kurchenko, which is under consideration. The Council was informed 
that on 29 April 2020 the Ukrainian authorities sent a request for international legal assistance to the Russian Federation, 
which was returned on 28 July 2020 without execution.
In accordance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Council considers that the periods during 
which Mr Kurchenko has been avoiding investigation must be excluded from the calculation of the period relevant for the 
assessment of respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The Council therefore considers that the 
circumstances described in the decision of the Odessa Court of Appeal attributed to Mr Kurchenko as well as the non- 
execution of the request for international legal assistance have significantly contributed to the length of the investigation.’.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 70/6 
4.3.2022  
