COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2023/410 
of 19 December 2022
amending Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 as regards adding the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, Gibraltar, Mozambique, Tanzania and the United Arab Emirates to Table I of the Annex to 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 and deleting Nicaragua, Pakistan and Zimbabwe from that 
table 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the 
prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending 
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the 
European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (1), and in particular Article 9(2) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)
The Union has to ensure the effective protection of the integrity and proper functioning of its financial system and 
the internal market from money laundering and terrorist financing. Directive (EU) 2015/849 therefore provides 
that the Commission should identify countries which have strategic deficiencies in their regimes on Anti-Money 
Laundering and Countering Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) that pose significant threats to the financial system 
of the Union.
(2)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 (2) identifies high-risk third countries with strategic deficiencies.
(3)
Considering the high level of integration of the international financial system, the close connection of market 
operators, the high volume of cross-border transactions to and from the Union, and the degree of market openness, 
any AML/CFT threat posed to the international financial system also represents a threat to the financial system of the 
Union.
(4)
In line with Article 9(4) of Directive (EU) 2015/849, the Commission takes the recent available information into 
account, in particular recent Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Public Statements, the FATF list of ‘Jurisdictions 
under Increased Monitoring’, and FATF reports of the International Cooperation Review Group in relation to the 
risks posed by individual third countries.
(5)
Since the latest amendments to Regulation (EU) 2016/1675, the FATF has significantly updated its list of 
‘Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring’. At its plenary meeting in March 2022, the FATF added the United Arab 
Emirates (UAE) to its list and deleted Zimbabwe from its list. At its plenary meeting in June 2022, the FATF added 
Gibraltar to its list. At its plenary meeting in October 2022, the FATF added the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
(DRC), Mozambique and Tanzania to its list and deleted Nicaragua and Pakistan from its list. All those changes were 
assessed by the Commission in line with Article 9 of Directive (EU) 2015/849.
(6)
In February 2022, the UAE made a high-level political commitment to work with the FATF and the Middle East and 
North Africa Financial Action Task Force to strengthen the effectiveness of its AML/CFT regime. Since then, the UAE 
demonstrated positive progress, including by providing additional resources to the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) 
to strengthen the FIU analysis and providing financial intelligence to Law Enforcement Authorities and the Public 
Prosecutors for combating of high-risk ML threats. The UAE should continue to work to implement its FATF action 
plan by: (1) demonstrating through case studies and statistics a sustained increase in outbound Mutual Legal 
(1) OJ L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 73.
(2) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 of 14 July 2016 supplementing Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council by identifying high-risk third countries with strategic deficiencies (OJ L 254, 20.9.2016, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
24.2.2023 
L 59/3  
Assistance requests to help facilitate investigation of Terrorism Financing (TF), Money-Laundering (ML), and high- 
risk predicates; (2) enhancing and maintaining a shared understanding of the ML/TF risks between the different 
DNFBP sectors and institutions; (3) showing an increase in the number and quality of STRs filed by FIs and 
Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions (DNFBPs); (4) ensuring a more granular understanding of the 
risk of abuse of legal persons and, where applicable, legal arrangements, for ML/TF; (5) demonstrate greater use of 
financial intelligence to pursue high-risk ML threats; and demonstrating a sustained increase in effective 
investigations and prosecutions of different types of ML cases consistent with the UAE’s risk profile; and (6) 
proactively identifying and combating sanctions evasion, including by demonstrating a better understanding of 
sanctions evasion among the private sector. Despite that commitment and progress, the concerns that led to the 
listing of the UAE by the FATF have not yet been fully addressed. The UAE should therefore be considered as a 
country that has strategic deficiencies in its AML/CFT regime under Article 9 of Directive (EU) 2015/849.
(7)
In June 2022, Gibraltar made a high-level political commitment to work with the FATF and MONEYVAL, the 
Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of Anti-Money Laundering Measures and the Financing of Terrorism of the 
Council of Europe, to strengthen the effectiveness of its AML/CFT regime. Since the adoption of its MER in December 
2019, Gibraltar has made progress on a significant number of its MER’s recommended actions, such as completing a 
new national risk assessment, addressing the technical deficiencies in relation to Beneficial Owner-related 
recordkeeping, introducing transparency requirements for nominee shareholders and directors, strengthening the 
financial intelligence unit, and refining its ML investigation policy in line with risks. Gibraltar should work on 
implementing its action plan, including by (1) ensuring that supervisory authorities for non-bank financial 
institutions and DNFBPs use a range of effective, proportionate, and dissuasive sanctions for AML/CFT breaches; 
and (2) demonstrating that it is more actively and successfully pursuing final confiscation judgements, through 
criminal or civil proceedings based on financial investigations. Despite that commitment and progress, the concerns 
that led to the listing of Gibraltar by the FATF have not yet been fully addressed. Gibraltar should therefore be 
considered as a third-country jurisdiction that has strategic deficiencies in its AML/CFT regime under Article 9 of 
Directive (EU) 2015/849.
(8)
In October 2022, the Democratic Republic of the Congo made a high-level political commitment to work with the 
FATF and the ‘Groupe d’Action contre le Blanchiment d’Argent en Afrique Centrale’ (GABAC), a FATF-style regional body, 
to strengthen the effectiveness of its AML/CFT regime. Since the adoption of its MER in October 2020, the DRC has 
made progress on some of the MER’s recommended actions including making confiscation of proceeds of crime a 
policy priority. The DRC will work to implement its FATF action plan by: (1) finalising the National Risk 
Assessment on ML and TF and adopting an AML/CFT national strategy; (2) designating supervisory authorities for 
all DNFBP sectors, and developing and implementing a risk-based supervision plan; (3) adequately resourcing the 
FIU, and build its capacity to conduct operational and strategic analysis; (4) strengthening the capabilities of 
authorities involved in the investigation and prosecution of ML and TF; and (5) demonstrating effective 
implementation of TF and Proliferation Financing-related Targeted Financial Sanctions. Despite that commitment 
and progress, the concerns that led to the listing of the DRC by the FATF have not yet been fully addressed. The 
DRC should therefore be considered as a country that has strategic deficiencies in its AML/CFT regime under 
Article 9 of Directive (EU) 2015/849.
(9)
In October 2022, Mozambique made a high-level political commitment to work with the FATF and the Eastern and 
Southern Africa AML Group (ESAAMLG) to strengthen the effectiveness of its AML/CFT regime. Since the adoption 
of its MER in April 2021, Mozambique has made progress on some of the MER’s recommended actions to improve 
its system including by finalising its National Risk Assessment and strengthening its asset confiscation efforts. 
Mozambique will work to implement its FATF action plan by: (1) ensuring cooperation and coordination amongst 
relevant authorities to implement risk-based AML/CFT strategies and policies; (2) conducting training for all Law 
Enforcement Authorities (LEAs) on mutual legal assistance to enhance the gathering of evidence or seizure/ 
confiscation of proceeds of crime; (3) providing adequate financial and human resources to supervisors, developing 
and implementing a risk-based supervision plan; (4) providing adequate resources to the authorities to commence 
the collection of adequate, accurate and up-to-date beneficial ownership information of legal persons; (5) increasing 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 59/4 
24.2.2023  
the human resources of the FIU as well as increasing financial intelligence sent to authorities; (6) demonstrating 
LEAs’ capability to effectively investigate ML/TF cases using financial intelligence; (7) conducting a comprehensive 
TF Risk Assessment and beginning to implement a comprehensive national CFT strategy; (8) increasing awareness 
on TF and Proliferation Financing-related Targeted Financial Sanctions; and (9) carrying out the TF risk assessment 
for Non-Profit Organizations in line with the FATF Standards and using it as a basis to develop an outreach plan. 
Despite that commitment and progress, the concerns that led to the listing of Mozambique by the FATF have not 
yet been fully addressed. Mozambique should therefore be considered as a country that has strategic deficiencies in 
its AML/CFT regime under Article 9 of Directive (EU) 2015/849.
(10)
In October 2022, Tanzania made a high-level political commitment to work with the FATF and ESAAMLG to 
strengthen the effectiveness of its AML/CFT regime. Since the adoption of its MER in April 2021, Tanzania has 
made progress on some of the MER’s recommended actions to improve its system including by developing legal 
framework for TF and Targeted Financial Sanctions (TFS) and disseminating FIU strategic analysis. Tanzania will 
work to implement its FATF action plan by: (1) improving risk-based supervision of Financial Institutions and 
DNFBPs, including by conducting inspections on a risk-sensitive basis and applying effective, proportionate, and 
dissuasive sanctions for non-compliance; (2) demonstrating authorities’ capability to effectively conduct a range of 
investigations and prosecutions of ML in line with the country’s risk profile; (3) demonstrating that Law 
Enforcement Authorities are taking measures to identify, trace, seize, and confiscate proceeds and instrumentalities 
of crime; (4) conducting a comprehensive TF Risk Assessment and beginning to implement a comprehensive 
national CFT strategy as well as demonstrating capability to conduct TF investigations and pursue prosecutions in 
line with the country’s risk profile; (5) increasing awareness of the private sector and competent authorities on TF 
and PF-related TFS; and (6) carrying out the TF risk assessment for Non-Profit Organizations in line with the FATF 
Standards and using it as a basis to develop an outreach plan. Despite that commitment and progress, the concerns 
that led to the listing of Tanzania by the FATF have not yet been fully addressed. Tanzania should therefore be 
considered as a country that has strategic deficiencies in its AML/CFT regime under Article 9 of Directive 
(EU) 2015/849.
(11)
The Commission’s assessment therefore concludes that the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gibraltar, 
Mozambique, Tanzania, and the UAE should be considered as third-country jurisdictions which have strategic 
deficiencies in their AML/CFT regimes that pose significant threats to the financial system of the Union, in 
accordance with the criteria set out in Article 9 of Directive (EU) 2015/849.
(12)
The Commission has reviewed progress in addressing the strategic deficiencies of the countries that were listed in 
Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 but were delisted in March, June and October 2022 by the FATF. In order to update the 
Annex to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 as required by Article 9 of Directive (EU) 2015/849, the 
Commission has reviewed the progress made by Nicaragua, Pakistan and Zimbabwe.
(13)
The FATF has welcomed the significant progress made by Nicaragua, Pakistan and Zimbabwe in improving their 
respective AML/CFT regimes. It has noted that Nicaragua, Pakistan and Zimbabwe have established the legal and 
regulatory frameworks to meet the commitments in their respective action plans regarding the strategic deficiencies 
that the FATF had identified. Nicaragua, Pakistan and Zimbabwe are therefore no longer subject to the FATF’s 
monitoring process under its ongoing global AML/CFT compliance process. Nicaragua should continue to work 
with the ‘Grupo de Acción Financiera de Latinoamérica’ (GAFILAT), the FATF-style regional body, to improve further 
its AML/CFT regime, including by ensuring its oversight of non-profit organisations (NPOs) is risk-based and in line 
with the FATF Standards. Pakistan will continue to work with the Asia Pacific Group, the FATF-style Regional Body, 
to further improve its AML/CFT system. Zimbabwe should continue to work with ESAAMLG to improve further 
its AML/CFT system, including by ensuring its oversight of NPOs is risk-based and in line with the FATF Standards.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
24.2.2023 
L 59/5  
(14)
The Commission’s assessment of the information available leads it to conclude that Nicaragua, Pakistan and 
Zimbabwe no longer have strategic deficiencies in their AML/CFT regimes. Nicaragua, Pakistan and Zimbabwe have 
strengthened the effectiveness of their AML/CFT regimes and addressed related technical deficiencies to meet the 
commitments in their action plans regarding the strategic deficiencies that the FATF had identified.
(15)
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 should therefore be amended accordingly,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
The table in point I of the Annex to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1675 is replaced by the table in the Annex to this 
Regulation.
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 19 December 2022.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 59/6 
24.2.2023  
ANNEX 
‘No
High-risk third country (1)
1
Afghanistan
2
Barbados
3
Burkina Faso
4
Cambodia
5
Cayman Islands
6
Democratic Republic of the Congo
7
Gibraltar
8
Haiti
9
Jamaica
10
Jordan
11
Mali
12
Morocco
13
Mozambique
14
Myanmar
15
Panama
16
Philippines
17
Senegal
18
South Sudan
19
Syria
20
Tanzania
21
Trinidad and Tobago
22
Uganda
23
United Arab Emirates
24
Vanuatu
25
Yemen
(1) Without prejudice to the legal position of the Kingdom of Spain with regard to sovereignty and jurisdiction in relation to the territory 
of Gibraltar.’
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
24.2.2023 
L 59/7  
