II 
(Non-legislative acts) 
REGULATIONS 
COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2021/546 
of 29 March 2021 
imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and definitively collecting the provisional duty imposed on 
imports of aluminium extrusions originating in the People’s Republic of China 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection 
against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1) (the ‘basic Regulation’) and in particular 
Article 9(4) thereof, 
Whereas: 
1. PROCEDURE 
1.1. Initiation 
(1) 
On 14 February 2020, the European Commission (‘the Commission’) initiated an anti-dumping investigation with 
regard to imports of aluminium extrusions originating in the People’s Republic of China (‘China’ or the ‘country 
concerned’) on the basis of Article 5 of the basic Regulation. 
(2) 
The Commission initiated the investigation following a complaint lodged on 3 January 2020 (the ‘complaint’) by the 
association European Aluminium (the ‘complainant’). The complainant represented more than 25 % of the total 
Union production of aluminium extrusions. The complaint contained evidence of dumping and of resulting 
material injury. 
1.2. Registration 
(3) 
Following a request from the complainant supported by the required evidence, the Commission made imports of the 
product concerned subject to registration under Article 14(5) of the basic Regulation by Commission Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2020/1215 (2). The registration of imports ceased with the entry into force of the provisional 
measures referred to in recital (5). 
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21, as subsequently modified.
(2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1215 of 21 August 2020 making imports of aluminium extrusions originating in 
the People’s Republic of China subject to registration (OJ L 275, 24.8.2020, p. 16).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                           
L 109/1   
1.3. Provisional measures 
(4) 
In accordance with Article 19a of the basic Regulation, on 22 September 2020, the Commission provided parties 
with a summary of the proposed duties and details about the calculation of the dumping margins and the margins 
adequate to remove the injury to the Union industry. Interested parties were invited to comment on the accuracy of 
the calculations within three working days. 
(5) 
On 12 October 2020, the Commission imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of aluminium 
extrusions originating in China by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1428 (3) (‘the provisional 
Regulation’). 
(6) 
As stated in recital (29) of the provisional Regulation, the investigation of dumping and injury covered the period 
from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 (‘the investigation period’ or ‘IP’) and the examination of trends 
relevant for the assessment of injury covered the period from 1 January 2016 to the end of the investigation period 
(‘the period considered’). 
1.4. Subsequent procedure 
(7) 
Following the disclosure of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which a provisional anti-dumping 
duty was imposed (‘provisional disclosure’), the complainant, several users and importers of the product concerned, 
several suppliers of raw material to the Union industry, the Government of the People’s Republic of China (the 
‘GOC’) and seven Chinese exporting producers filed written submissions making their views known on the 
provisional findings within the deadline provided by Article 2(1) of the provisional Regulation. 
(8) 
The points raised by the interested parties are summarised in this Regulation to the extent possible. Indeed, several 
points raised were unclear and it could not always be established to which Article of the basic Regulation they 
related. Interested parties were invited to clarify any arguments they consider relevant, to the extent they have not 
been addressed in the final disclosure. 
(9) 
Following provisional disclosure, two more importers came forward, when the sampling exercise was already 
concluded. Their input was taken into consideration insofar as possible given the procedural stage of the 
investigation. 
(10) 
Following the imposition of provisional measures, the interested parties who so requested were granted an 
opportunity to be heard. Hearings took place with Decora S.A., Vis Promotex d.o.o., Alstom S. A., O. Wilms GmbH 
& Co, Airoldi Metalli S.p.A (joined by O. Wilms GmbH, Kastens & Knauer GmbH & Co. International KG and Alpha 
Metall GmbH), Haomei Group (Guangdong Haomei New Materials Co., Ltd. and Guangdong King Metal Light Alloy 
Technology Co., Ltd.) and PMI Group (Press Metal International Ltd. and Press Metal International Technology Ltd.). 
(11) 
Airoldi Metalli S.p.A (Airoldi) requested a meeting with the Union industry in accordance with Article 6(6) of the 
basic Regulation, which was not accepted by the latter. It further held a hearing with the Hearing Officer of the 
Directorate-General for Trade (‘DG TRADE’), who dismissed the company’s argument that insufficient information 
disclosed to it in the frame of the pre-disclosure provided for by Article 19a of the basic Regulation breached its 
rights of defence for the reasons explained in the dedicated Hearing Officer’s report. 
(12) 
Following final disclosure Airoldi contested the Hearing Officer’s interpretation of Article 19a of the basic 
Regulation, claiming that a specific reading of that provision was necessary. However, bearing in mind that Airoldi 
did not specify any further issue to support its point, and the explicit requirement of the said Article to respect the 
confidentiality obligations contained in Article 19, the Commission maintained its position on the matter. 
(3) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1428 of 12 October 2020 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of 
aluminium extrusions originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 336, 13.10.2020, p. 8).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/2                                                                                                                                           
30.3.2021   
(13) 
As further detailed below, following the imposition of provisional measures, two additional remote cross-checks 
were held with Alstom S.A. and Airoldi to ascertain salient issues in the context of a definitive determination. The 
Commission also intended to hold an additional remote cross-check for another importer, which was not possible 
due to the latter’s constraints. 
(14) 
The Commission informed all interested parties of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it 
intended to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of aluminium extrusions originating in China (‘final 
disclosure’). All parties were granted a period within which they could make comments on the final disclosure. 
(15) 
The Commission received comments from a number of parties, including the Government of China, Chinese 
exporting producers, Union importers, users, Union producers, their suppliers and various representative 
associations. 
(16) 
Following final disclosure certain interested parties were granted an opportunity to be heard according to the 
provisions in point 5.7 of the Notice of initiation. Hearings took place with Decora S.A., Airoldi (joined by O. 
Wilms GmbH, Amari Metals BV and Alpha Metall GmbH), Bash-tec GmbH, STAKO Sp. z o.o. and Haomei Group. 
In addition a hearing was organised by the DG Trade Hearing Officer to hear points raised by Shandong Nollvetec 
Lightweight Equipment Co., Ltd. and Jilin Qixing Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd. 
(17) 
In support of an additional extension for replying to final disclosure Airoldi requested a copy of the General 
Disclosure Document in Italian, and claimed that failure to supply the document in Italian language constituted a 
breach of Regulation No 1/1958 (4) read in conjunction with Article 21, 22 and 41 of the Charter of Fundamental 
Rights. The Commission disagreed with this interpretation, replying in writing that Airoldi had raised this matter 
only at a very late stage of the investigation, and that up to that stage, both Airoldi and its lawyers had used English 
successfully, and at length, in both written and verbal communications (5). This was further demonstrated in 
extensive contacts with the Commission throughout the case. The Commission recalled the nature of that 
document, which is not an implementing Regulation, and confirmed its position. Nonetheless, the Commission 
provided an additional extension to Airoldi, on the basis of its approach to make all use of the provisions of the 
Notice of initiation of the case which is compatible with the completion of the investigation while respecting 
statutory deadlines. Following the additional final disclosure, Airoldi requested a translation of this document in 
Italian. This request, which did not show how Airoldi’s right of defence was affected, could not be accepted for the 
same reasons mentioned above. 
(18) 
On 8 February 2021 the Commission made an additional final disclosure to interested parties in order to reflect the 
fact that the EU-28 had become the EU-27. The Commission informed all interested parties of the essential facts and 
considerations on the basis of which it intended to revise the case findings including the definitive anti-dumping 
duty to reflect this change (‘additional final disclosure’). All parties were granted a period within which they could 
make comments on the additional final disclosure. Comments were received from Haomei Group, Airoldi and 
Euranimi, which made itself known as an interested party after final disclosure. 
(19) 
Following the additional final disclosure certain interested parties were granted an opportunity to be heard according 
to the provisions in point 5.7 of the Notice of initiation. Hearings took place with Haomei Group, Airoldi and 
Euranimi. In addition, on 18 February 2021, a hearing was organised by the Hearing Officer to hear points raised 
by Airoldi. At that occasion, the Commission services reiterated that the specific approach followed in this 
investigation was appropriate in view of the lack of impact of removing the UK from the findings (an issue further 
confirmed by the Union industry and not disputed by any interested party). It was further confirmed that the 
additional final disclosure contained the necessary explanations for interested parties to defend themselves. 
(4) Regulation No 1 determining the languages to be used by the European Economic Community (OJ 17, 6.10.1958, p. 385/58).
(5) See in this sense judgment of 13 July 2011, ThyssenKrupp Liften Ascenseurs NV and others v Commission, Cases T-144/07, T-147/07, 
T-148/07, T-149/07, T-150/07 and T-154/07, ECLI:EU:T:2011:364, para. 86. See also Article 2 of Regulation No 1/1958.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                           
L 109/3   
1.5. Sampling 
(20) 
In the absence of comments concerning sampling, recitals (8) to (20) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
(21) 
In recital (19) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission referred to the initially selected sample of three 
cooperating groups of exporting producers representing 28,1 % of total exports. In recital (24) of the provisional 
Regulation, the Commission referred to the final sample of two groups of exporting producers, following the fact 
that the Liaoning Zhongwang Group did not submit any reply to the questionnaire. That sample of two groups 
represented 20,9 % of total exports. 
(22) 
In recitals (206) to (210) of this Regulation, the Commission explains how it established the amended level of total 
imports from China for the IP. Following this change, the estimated level of imports of aluminium extrusions from 
China decreased. Consequently, the initially selected sample of three cooperating groups of exporting producers 
represented 45,3 %, and the final sample of two groups of exporting producers represented 33,7 % of the newly 
estimated imports. 
(23) 
Two additional exporting producers duly substantiated their claims to be included in the list of cooperating 
exporting producers. 
(24) 
After taking into account their comments, the Commission updated the Annex to the provisional Regulation 
accordingly and added the two entities to the list of cooperating exporting producers in the Annex to this 
Regulation. 
(25) 
A cooperating exporting producer commented that it was too small to be selected to the sample. It claimed that 
because of its size, it was punished by being subject to the highest duty. 
(26) 
The Commission noted that this exporting producer was not subject to the highest duty. The highest duty applies to 
companies that did not cooperate in the initial stage of the investigation and therefore were not listed in the Annex as 
cooperating companies. The duty for non-sampled cooperating companies, like the exporting producer making the 
claim, is in fact lower than a duty of one of the sampled exporting producers as it was calculated as a weighted 
average of the dumping margins established for the sampled exporting producers. Finally, the sample of exporting 
producers was selected in line with the requirements under the basic Regulation. The Commission therefore rejected 
this claim. 
1.6. Requests for additional information and analysis after final disclosure 
(27) 
Following final disclosure Airoldi commented that its rights of defence had been affected by the fact that details of 
the Remote Cross-Checks (‘RCC’) at the Union producers had not been made available to them. However, the details 
referred to by Airoldi are business confidential. In the same way the Union producers did not get access to business 
confidential details of the RCC performed with other interested parties. Furthermore, a version ‘open to interested 
parties’ of these RCCs was made available to Airoldi on the case file. The Commission maintains, therefore, that 
Airoldi’s rights of defence have been fully respected. 
(28) 
Some interested parties raised new elements after the deadline to submit factual information given in the Notice of 
initiation, and the deadline to submit comments to final disclosure, which had already been extended to parties 
requesting an extension by up to 7 days. 
(29) 
In particular, Airoldi submitted a post-hearing briefing with certain claims concerning the alleged impact on the 
investigation of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (‘UK’) from the 
European Union and the end of the transition period. These claims had not been made during the hearing. 
(30) 
This briefing was submitted both after the deadline to submit factual information given in the Notice of initiation, 
and the deadline to submit comments to final disclosure, which was already extended to Airoldi by seven days. It is 
recalled that neither hearings nor post-hearing briefings can be used to present factual information or elements not 
yet on file, and therefore do not extend the deadline to submit further views. The company made several additional 
submissions which were equally beyond the required deadlines and thus could not be considered. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/4                                                                                                                                           
30.3.2021   
(31) 
The same applies to Haomei Group, which submitted two sets of comments after the required deadline, one of which 
concerns the alleged impact on the investigation of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland (‘UK’) from the European Union and the end of the transition period. 
(32) 
In addition, Euranimi submitted comments beyond the required deadlines for replying to disclosures and thus they 
could not be considered beyond aspects referring to the additional final disclosure. 
(33) 
As regards those elements raised outside the timeframe for the Commission to properly conduct this investigation, 
the Commission notes that the findings made at provisional stage as well as in the final disclosure were made on the 
basis of EU-28 data since they were made before 1 January 2021. The deadline to submit factual information given 
in the Notice of initiation expired on 28 October 2020, that is well before the end of the transition period of the 
withdrawal of the UK those findings were made. This underpins the validity of those findings. 
(34) 
In addition, no claims have been made by any party within the breadth of the periods afforded by the investigation 
stating (and much less demonstrating) that the measures would (or even could) have been significantly different if 
they had been based on information excluding the UK. 
(35) 
That being said, the Commission has reviewed the information on file to assess whether findings made on the basis 
of EU-28 would remain applicable in an EU-27 context. For aspects of the investigation not mentioned hereunder, 
EU-28 findings are confirmed to be appropriate also for EU-27, since the Commission assured itself that the 
information obtained during the investigation was still representative of the Union on an EU-27 basis, the impact, if 
any, being minimal. 
(36) 
Following the additional final disclosure, Airoldi claimed that its comments regarding the withdrawal of the United 
Kingdom from the Union arrived in good time, since the end of the transition period and the final definition of the 
commercial relations with the United Kingdom constituted a ‘new fact’. This is difficult to reconcile with the 
company’s own stated view that ‘it was well known that Brexit and final withdrawal of the UK was to take place on 
1 January 2021’. At any rate, the company was in a position to fully exercise its legal rights to comment on this 
matter by 11 January 2021, the deadline by which comments to final disclosure were due. The fact that the 
Commission, in an exercise of procedural flexibility, had extended this deadline by 7 days provided additional 
opportunity for the company to do so. Yet this was not the case, as comments requesting the re-examination of the 
investigation on an EU-27 basis arrived only on 20 January – well after the extended deadline. Therefore, the claim 
cannot be accepted. In any event, the Commission re-examined the matter, as described above. 
(37) 
Following the additional final disclosure Haomei submitted a late request after the extended deadline for comments 
reiterating comments previously submitted. The late submission is therefore not admissible. The comments 
contained therein are in any case already addressed in recitals (196), (259) and (270). 
1.7. Individual examination 
(38) 
Two exporting producers, Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight Equipment Co., Ltd. and Jilin Qixing Aluminium 
Industries Co., Ltd. commented, with regard to the fact that the Commission did not individually examine those two 
companies, in spite that they have requested it and submitted the questionnaire replies. Both companies claimed that 
they should be granted 0 % duty rate resulting from their questionnaire reply. 
(39) 
At the stage of provisional Regulation, the Commission stated that it would decide whether to grant individual 
examination at the definitive stage of the investigation. However, it turned out that the examination of these 
requests would have been burdensome and would not have allowed the completion of the investigation within the 
time period established in the basic Regulation. Furthermore, the additional period of time between the provisional 
and definitive phases was not sufficient to allow the Commission to properly consider these requests. The 
Commission therefore confirmed its decision not to grant any requests for individual examination. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                           
L 109/5   
(40) 
Following final disclosure, the same two exporting producers, Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight Equipment Co., Ltd. 
and Jilin Qixing Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd. reiterated their comments concerning not being granted individual 
examination and commented on the explanation provided by the Commission in recital (39). In particular, they 
argued that two requests for individual examination cannot be considered as very large number of exporters which 
unduly burdensome the charge of the Commission and would prevent the completion of the investigation in good 
time. 
(41) 
Concerning the examination of additional requests to be burdensome and not allowing the completion of the 
investigation in time, the Commission wants to underline that in the process of examining the sampled producers, 
Haomei Group and the PMI Group the Commission, as mentioned in recital (22) of the provisional Regulation, it 
examined four exporting producers: Guangdong Haomei New Materials Co., Ltd.; Guangdong King Metal Light 
Alloy Technology Co., Ltd; Press Metal International Ltd. and Press Metal International Technology Ltd. 
(42) 
In addition, the assessment of how burdensome the examination of the additional exporting producers includes all 
aspects of this very complex case and takes into account the restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
report of the hearing of 13 January 2021 by the Hearing Officer available on the case file provides more details in 
this regard. 
(43) 
Comments also made reference to Article 9(6) of the basic Regulation stating that anti-dumping duty applied to 
cooperating exporting producers shall not exceed the weighted average margin of dumping, established with 
respect to the parties in the sample. In this regard, the Commission confirmed that this is the case, and it is the 
reason for which the anti-dumping duty applied to cooperating exporting producers is lower than the level of anti- 
dumping duty of one of the two sampled exporting producers. 
1.8. Claim for the suspension of the investigation 
(44) 
An importer, Airoldi, returned to the issue of suspension of the investigation as discussed in recitals (27) and (28) of 
the provisional Regulation, which was also the subject of a complaint to the European Ombudsman and dismissed 
by the latter. The importer claimed that the basic Regulation was in breach of fundamental rights of the parties 
(most notably the right to be heard, the right to good administration, the principle of equality and the right to 
health protection), as it did not prescribe for a suspension of the investigation in cases of emergency such as the 
current pandemic. 
(45) 
Moreover, Airoldi claimed that the basic Regulation, interpreted in the light of the WTO Anti-dumping agreement 
(‘ADA’), should have provided for longer time-frames for completing the investigation in the light of the 
circumstances. According to the party, the basic Regulation is an implementing measure of the ADA and since 
Article 5(10) of the ADA allows for investigations to be concluded within the maximum time-frame of 18 months, 
the European Union would be entitled to derogate to the investigation deadlines and apply the time limits 
mentioned in the ADA. According to the proposed reasoning, the DG TRADE, in application of Article 57 of the 
Vienna Convention on the law of the treaties (‘Suspension of the operation of a Treaty under its provisions or by 
consent of the parties’), should also have requested the relevant Chinese authorities for their agreement for a 
suspension of the investigation given the circumstances. 
(46) 
The suggested approach was, however, not legally possible because the current investigation was performed in the 
exercise of the implementing powers granted to the Commission by the basic Regulation. For this reason, the 
Commission cannot deviate from the deadlines prescribed therein. Moreover, according to the European courts’ 
case law, the ADA can only be given direct effect in very limited circumstances which were not shown in this case 
and, therefore, cannot, in this case, take precedence over the basic Regulation. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/6                                                                                                                                           
30.3.2021   
(47) 
In response, the interested party claims that a legislative amendment was not needed to change the deadlines of the 
investigation, and in support of this claim it mentions the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1173 (6), 
which amends the basic Regulation in changing the duration of the pre-disclosure from three to four weeks. 
However, this precedent is not appropriate because the Commission adopted Regulation (EU) 2020/1173 in the 
exercise and within the limits of the powers delegated to it by Article 7(1) fourth paragraph of the basic Regulation. 
In the absence of such a specific empowerment, the specific provisions of the basic Regulation as regards mandatory 
deadlines to complete the investigation cannot be changed or derogated from. 
(48) 
Moreover, with respect to this claim, the request for a suspension was in any case considered disproportionate in the 
present circumstances, since the Commission services were able to perform the investigation, and the parties to 
participate in it in a meaningful way despite the restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. These alleged 
breaches of the fundamental rights were also submitted by Airoldi in the form of complaint to the European 
Ombudsman, who noted that the Commission had extended the deadlines to the maximum possible amount in 
order to take into account the challenges posed by the COVID-19 crisis. The European Ombudsman also noted that 
extending the deadlines further could have undermined the ability of the Commission to meet its obligations to 
complete the anti-dumping investigation within the legal deadlines that were binding on it. Therefore, the European 
Ombudsman found that the Commission acted reasonably and closed the case with a finding of no 
maladministration (7). 
(49) 
Following final disclosure Airoldi reiterated that the Commission was wrong to have rejected its request to suspend 
the investigation. However, bearing in mind that no new arguments were raised, the Commission confirms that the 
claim cannot be accepted. 
(50) 
The importer further requested access to some internal Commission documents, in accordance with Regulation (EC) 
No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (8). The request and the reply thereto follow the 
provisions of that Regulation and therefore do not form part of this investigation. 
(51) 
Following final disclosure Haomei Group indicated that the Commission has announced the conclusion in principle 
of negotiations for the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (‘CAI’). They argued that the 
investigation should be postponed to allow parties involved in the proceeding to acquire broader information on 
the CAI and to deliver a proper written contribution on its effects on the pending procedure. This argument is 
irrelevant, the CAI being an agreement covering investment matters that does not alter or affect in any way the 
application of trade defence instruments, and is thus not accepted. 
(52) 
Following additional final disclosure Haomei Group reiterated and expanded on their arguments to postpone the 
investigation, but these arguments did not alter the conclusion indicated in recital (51) that the arguments are 
irrelevant. Furthermore, Haomei Group’s reiteration of the point had no relevance to the additional final disclosure 
and was therefore outside the required deadlines. 
(53) 
Following additional final disclosure Haomei Group also claimed that the investigation should be closed because of 
the strength of their arguments concerning dumping, injury and causation. However, as these arguments have been 
rejected in this Regulation, the Commission confirmed that there are no grounds to close the investigation. 
1.9. Investigation period and period considered 
(54) 
In the absence of comments concerning the investigation period and period considered, recital (29) of the 
provisional Regulation was confirmed. 
(6) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1173 of 4 June 2020 amending Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 on protection against 
dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union and Regulation (EU) 2016/1037 on protection against 
subsidised imports from countries not members of the European Union as regards the duration of the period of pre-disclosure 
(OJ L 259, 10.8.2020, p. 1).
(7) Ombudsman Decision in Case 924/2020/TE of 20 October 2020.
(8) Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European 
Parliament, Council and Commission documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                           
L 109/7   
2. PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT 
2.1. Claims regarding the product scope 
(55) 
One exporting producer suggested to carry out dumping and injury assessment per market segment. 
(56) 
As explained in the provisional Regulation, inter alia, in recitals (43) to (47), and in this Section, these aluminium 
products commonly referred to as aluminium extrusions have the same basic physical, technical and chemical 
characteristics and therefore all belong to the product concerned. Although specific extrusions might be used only 
for a specific application, this is the result of the fact that these products are bespoke and produced expressly for 
their intended use. The commercial practice introduced a number of distinctions, including between hard and soft 
alloys, medium and large size profiles, standard and special profiles and extrusions to be used for a specific 
application. The investigation has shown that while many producers are present in several of these categories, they 
produce according to the technical characteristics of their machines and on the basis of the requirements of their 
various customers. Moreover, concerning the alloys, the investigation proved that a number of aluminium alloys 
exist, and different alloys may be appropriate for a certain application. Furthermore, as explained in recital (197) of 
this Regulation, different parties claimed that the market should be differentiated using the above mentioned 
criteria. Despite that, given the absence of a clear dividing line or distinguishing criterion between the different 
products, the assessment of dumping and injury should be made for the Union industry as a whole, ensuring due 
comparability of products. This claim regarding segmentation was therefore dismissed. 
(57) 
One importer (Airoldi) claimed that the definition and scope of CN code 7610 90 90 was imprecise, and that the 
Commission erred in including imports falling under this code in the import statistics for the product concerned. 
(58) 
Firstly, the definition of a CN code, and products included therein, is not within the scope of this investigation, nor of 
trade defence legislation, but follows EU classification rules. Concerning instead the inclusion of products falling 
under CN code 7610 90 90 in the present investigation, as explained in the provisional Regulation in recitals (218) 
to (223), the Commission had already indicated that the proportion of product concerned included in this code 
could be lower than that initially estimated by the complainants. This does not impinge upon the fact that the 
product concerned currently falls notably under the aforementioned code as a matter of customs classification. The 
final determination on this matter is contained in the analysis and conclusions reported in recitals (206) to (210) of 
this Regulation. 
(59) 
Airoldi returned to the issue mentioned in the previous recital following final disclosure. They reiterated their 
arguments and mentioned that numerous BTIs exist under the CN code in question. However, the existence of such 
BTIs does not imply that certain imports under the code do not fall under the product concerned. This issue is 
further considered in chapter 4.3 ‘Imports from the country concerned’. 
(60) 
Following provisional disclosure, one user (Alstom) claimed that the Commission, in rejecting their product 
exclusion claim, failed to grasp the complexity of the characteristics of the products they imported, as railway 
aluminium extrusions constitute a product with different basic characteristics than the other aluminium products 
falling under the scope of the proceedings. They follow specific standards and must satisfy the demanding 
characteristics required for their intended use, including tolerance, microstructure, choice of usable alloys, fatigue 
requirements, thickness, testing, conformity of mechanical properties and soundness of extrusion seams, with a 
direct impact on the product to ensure the passengers’ ultimate safety. This would be contrary to other on-demand 
products, where the bespoke character would relate only to requests concerning characteristics affecting the 
appearance of the product such as its length, width, weight or finishing (e.g. cut-to-length, polished, etc.), and not 
affecting the products’ intrinsic characteristics. Compliance with the different product requirements would entail a 
dividing line between railway-specific products and products for other uses. Finally, the user claimed that in 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/8                                                                                                                                           
30.3.2021   
previous cases the Commission excluded products from an investigation on the basis of their use and production 
process (in particular, the party refers to the measures on certain castings (9) and the recently opened investigation 
on flat-rolled aluminium products originating in China (10)). 
(61) 
Even if these claims were to be sufficiently substantiated, the Commission does not dispute the complexity of many 
aluminium extrusions, including those of the railway sector, nor the fact that different product types can have 
different specific characteristics, uses or production process; that they can follow different product standards; or 
that interchangeability may not be universal amongst each and every one of such types. However, within its margin 
of discretion, the Commission has to examine each case on its specific merits and in particular as to the key criterion 
of whether different types share the same basic physical, chemical and technical characteristics. In this case, the 
information provided regarding type-related specificities did not disprove the fact that the types at hand share the 
basic characteristics described in the provisional Regulation, regardless of the sector in which they are used. Besides, 
both the exporting producers and the Union industry produce and sell aluminium extrusions to serve the railway 
sector. Aluminium extrusions for the railway sector therefore belong within the scope of the investigation for which 
dumping, injury and Union interest considerations were assessed. Therefore, the claims could not be accepted. 
(62) 
With respect to extrusions for the railway sector, two exporting producers (Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight 
Equipment Co., Ltd. and Jilin Qixing Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd.) also requested the exclusion of these products 
from the product scope. The arguments brought forward by these producers concerned the existence of specific and 
more demanding standards and production processes than for general applications. As explained above, the 
products included in the product scope, namely those mentioned at recitals (38) to (41) of the provisional 
Regulation, share the same basic characteristics despite their additional compliance with standards applicable to 
certain applications or sectors. 
(63) 
Following final disclosure one Union association (UNIFE), one user (Alstom) and two exporting producers (Jilin 
Qixing and Shandong Nollvetec) reiterated the points they made to support the exclusion of extrusions in the 
railway sector. 
(64) 
Alstom also claimed that the Commission had not adequately considered whether a competitive relationship existed 
between the products in its assessment of the product exclusion request. However, as mentioned at recital (61) both 
the exporting producers and the Union industry produce and sell aluminium extrusions to serve the railway sector. 
Therefore they are in competition with each other. The investigation has further confirmed the impact of unfair 
trading practices on the production of additional product types for the sector, and the Union’s ability to do so in the 
context of fair trading conditions. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(65) 
Alstom further claimed that the Commission had not considered the case law appropriately. In respect of the case 
regarding certain castings, Alstom claimed that the existence of an EN norm was part of the justification for an 
exclusion of products. In the current case, Alstom argued that the Commission has not elaborated on why the 
existence of an EN norm was not a relevant factor. As indicated in recital (61) the Commission does not dispute that 
each user industry purchases products with specific characteristics. However, this kind of differentiation applies to all 
user sectors and relates to the technical requirements of the sector. Again the existence of EN norms in the railway 
sector does not impinge upon the fact that the extrusions covered by the norm have the same basic characteristics 
as products for other applications. In respect of the footwear case (11), certain products were excluded from the 
scope of the investigation not least because basic characteristics of those products were not the same. This is not the 
(9) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1480 of 16 August 2017 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of 
certain cast iron articles originating in the People’s Republic of China (OJ L 211, 17.8.2017, p. 14).
(10) See Notice of initiation at OJ C 268, 14.8.2020, p. 5.
(11) Commission Regulation (EC) No 553/2006 of 23 March 2006 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain 
footwear with uppers of leather originating in the People’s Republic of China and Vietnam (OJ L 98, 6.4.2006, p. 3). Council 
Regulation (EC) No 1472/2006 of 5 October 2006 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitely the provisional 
duty imposed on imports of certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in the People’s Republic of China and Vietnam (OJ 
L 275, 6.10.2006, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                           
L 109/9   
case here, as the basic characteristics are the same. To illustrate one example, in the footwear case, such differences 
resulted in different import and price trends – no claim has even been made in this regard. In sum, it is confirmed 
that this argument could not be accepted. 
(66) 
Another user (Carl Prinz), a manufacturer of technological solutions for floor coverings, claimed that, because of the 
standards in place and the reduced tolerances required, as well as the need for specific presses and other 
manufacturing tools in the production, the products they import could not be compared with more standard 
imported products and should therefore be excluded from the investigation. 
(67) 
Similarly as for the previous user, this argument could not be accepted. Firstly, the exporting producers and the 
Union industry both sold a large variety of products; however, the division by product types ensured that the price 
comparison was made on comparable products. Secondly, regardless of the technical requirements that make a 
certain product and its use very specific, it still shares the basic characteristics of the product concerned. 
(68) 
One exporting producer (Fuyao) requested that the extrusions for automobile related accessory products should be 
excluded from the investigation. The exporting producer claimed that the Commission did not consider that these 
extrusions were different from other extrusions used, for example, in the construction sector. In support of its 
claim, the exporting producer stated that according to the case law of the Court of Justice, the Commission may 
take into account a ‘number of factors, such as, inter alia, the physical, technical and chemical characteristics of the 
products, their use, interchangeability, consumer perception, distribution channels, manufacturing process, costs of 
production and quality’ (12). For this reason, the exporting producer claimed that the products it exported should be 
excluded as they serve a different end-use than the other ones subject to the measures. Furthermore, in support of its 
claim, the exporting producer also mentioned that the Commission, at recital (41) of the provisional Regulation, 
excluded without giving reasons a series of products from the investigation (such as subassemblies, welded tubes 
and pipes and finished goods kits). 
(69) 
With respect to these claims, as noted in recital (56), although specific extrusions might be used only in a given 
sector of the market for a specific application, this is the result of the fact that these products are bespoke and 
produced expressly for their intended use. The investigation has shown that there is not a clear dividing line or 
distinguishing criterion between the different products, which would justify a segment analysis. Rather, the 
Commission concluded that the most appropriate approach for the assessment of dumping and injury to the Union 
industry is to consider all product types together, while ensuring the comparability of all products being compared. 
As regards the exclusions mentioned at recital (41) of the provisional Regulation, these are defined by the 
complainants in their choice of the appropriate product scope which suffered the effects of injurious dumping. 
These claims were therefore dismissed. 
(70) 
One user (Stako Sp. z o.o.) importing aluminium tubes under the autonomous tariff suspension for use in the 
manufacture of high pressure vessels claimed that the existence of the said tariff suspension would require the 
exclusion of the products from the scope of the measures. This claim was submitted significantly after the deadline 
to submit such requests i.e. 10 days following the date of the Notice of initiation. This company claimed that, 
because of the absence of production of the imported products in the Union, these imports by definition could not 
have caused injury to the Union industry and therefore should be excluded. 
(71) 
In addition, the complainant identified one Union producer who they indicated would be able and willing to produce 
and supply the product. 
(12) See judgment of 13 September 2010 in Case T-314/06, Whirlpool Europe Srl v Council, ECR 2010 II-05005, para. 138.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/10                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(72) 
Following final disclosure, this user commented that the flow formed tubes concerned could not be supplied by the 
referred Union producer or by any other Union producer and they could only be obtained from China. The user 
requested the Commission, therefore, to exempt these types of tubes. 
(73) 
European Aluminium then commented that another Union producer using a comparable process is able to supply a 
suitable product and indicated that Union producers are capable of producing any extrusion product. 
(74) 
The Commission noted that Stako came forward late in the investigation and it was not possible for them to 
conclude on the usefulness of the comparable process within the remaining time. Additionally, at the hearing with 
Stako it was confirmed that the flow forming process is carried out in the Union. 
(75) 
Moreover, the products subject to the tariff suspension share the same basic characteristics as the product concerned. 
(76) 
For these reasons, the request for exclusion was not accepted. 
(77) 
One user (Bi Silque S.A.) is importing hollow profiles under the autonomous tariff suspension for use in frames also 
requested the exclusion of these products from the scope of the measures, albeit significantly after the deadline to 
submit such requests. This company claimed that there was a lack of supply on the Union market and therefore 
these imports should be excluded from the product scope. An unrelated importer also commented on this matter 
and supported the claim. 
(78) 
However, the complainant identified four Union producers who are able and willing to produce and supply such 
products. In the present case, the products imported by this user appear to have the same basic characteristics as the 
product concerned and, for this reason, the request for exclusion should be rejected. 
(79) 
A Union user (Forest Group Nederland B.V.) claimed that its Chinese supplier or the product it sells should be 
excluded from the investigation as they were sold at non-dumped prices. This claim was submitted significantly 
after the deadline to submit such requests. In any case, the claim seems to come from a misunderstanding of anti- 
dumping proceedings. Even when one exporting producer is found not to be dumping (which is not the case here 
as the exporting producer in question did not cooperate with the investigation), this would not constitute a reason 
for exclusion of a product from the scope of the investigation. Therefore, the claim had to be rejected. 
(80) 
A request for exemption from the anti-dumping duties was received on behalf of an exporting producer (Match 
Foshan Sanshui Hardware Products Company Ltd.) on the basis that the company is highly reliant on their exports 
for their economic viability and that it could not prove that it was not dumping as it had not been sampled. This 
claim was submitted significantly after the deadline to submit such requests. As these elements do not constitute 
grounds for an exclusion, the request should be rejected. 
(81) 
One importer (O. Wilms GmbH & Co) requested that the product it imports should be excluded from the product 
scope as it requires a special finish, lengthy approval processes, and is sold to the Union at high prices. This claim 
was submitted significantly after the deadline to submit such requests. As these elements do not constitute grounds 
for an exclusion and the product shares the same basic characteristics as the product concerned, the request should 
be rejected. 
(82) 
A company using the product concerned to produce picture frames in the Union (Mavanti B.V.) claimed that as a 
result of the measures it will suffer an increase in cost which will put its company at a competitive disadvantage 
with the finished products (i.e. picture frames) from China, which will not be subject to anti-dumping duties. This 
user therefore proposed to extend the product scope to cover other finished products such as picture frames. This 
claim was submitted significantly after the deadline to submit such requests. As the product scope excludes finished 
products and it would not be appropriate to extend the product scope after the initiation of the investigation, this 
request cannot be accepted either. 
(83) 
In conclusion, the Commission determined that no grounds existed to exclude the products subject to the above 
requests from the product scope of the investigation. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/11   
(84) 
Following final disclosure two other users (Decora and Bash tec) indicated that the products they import should be 
excluded from the investigation because of their specific characteristics, a lack or absence of supply by Union 
producers or high prices from Union producers. 
(85) 
These users provided details of initial discussions they had held with Union producers in order to try to source 
aluminium extrusions from them. 
(86) 
European Aluminium reiterated that users should not expect to continue to benefit from injurious dumping as they 
had in the past. They also pointed out that extrusions are made to order and that the Union industry has spare 
capacity. European Aluminium identified Union producers able to meet the specifications required. 
(87) 
The Commission noted that these users were at the early stages of discussions with potential Union suppliers and 
that the users are in the process of adapting to the existence of the measures. Therefore, it cannot be concluded that 
there is lack of ability or willingness to supply the aforementioned product types on the part of the Union industry. 
(88) 
The Commission, therefore, maintains its position that the product exclusion requests of these users cannot be 
accepted. 
(89) 
One user (Mat-Inter) claimed that the product definition was unclear and that it would risk its products being 
classified as product concerned. Despite the fact that the user did not provide a clear argument about the features of 
its products and the reasons for their uncertain classification (including the fact that it mentioned in its reasoning 
Sub Chapter 7904 of the combined nomenclature which is outside the scope of the investigation), it should be 
recalled that the product definition is also reported in the operative part of this Regulation and that the practical 
implementation of it is the competence of the Customs authorities of the Member State where the import takes 
place. 
2.2. Further details regarding product scope 
(90) 
Several parties posed questions as to whether their exports fell under the product concerned. To furnish clarification 
and mitigate the risk of misclassification, the Commission provides further details regarding the exclusions to the 
product scope, specifically the ‘subassemblies’ and ‘finished goods kits’, as described in recital (41) of the provisional 
Regulation. 
(91) 
Products attached (e.g. by welding or fasteners) to form ‘subassemblies’ are not part of the product scope. Products 
are typically presented in subassemblies only where the subassembly is designed to be assembled into a bigger entity 
such as a final product or an assembly, and where sufficient economic justification exists to sell products in this 
fashion. 
(92) 
Equally, there must be sufficient economic justification to sell products in ‘finished goods kits’, which comprise all 
essential characteristics of the finished product resulting from assembly of the ‘kit’, and are directly ready and 
complete for their final intended use (assembly of this final product). 
(93) 
To facilitate the classification of such products and customs control, specific TARIC codes will be created for both 
exclusions. 
(94) 
All other aspects of the provisional Regulation regarding the product under investigation, the product concerned, 
the like product and the product scope are confirmed. 
3. DUMPING 
3.1. Normal value 
(95) 
Several interested parties and GOC commented on the lack of significant distortions in China. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/12                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(96) 
In their comments concerning the provisional Regulation, Haomei Group argued that they provided evidence 
justifying the application of Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation for the calculation of normal value. Particularly, 
Haomei Group rejected the existence of significant distortions for their companies and insisted that they had 
provided sufficient evidence showing that they meet the conditions laid down in Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation, in particular proving the lack of distortions in the field of labour costs, credit and energy. 
(97) 
As explained in detail at recital (77) and (79) and following of the provisional Regulation, the Commission reiterated 
that under Article 2(6a)(b) it considers the potential impact of one or more of the elements listed in that provision, 
including but not limited to labour costs, credit and energy. As also clarified in the same recitals, the starting point 
is the existence of significant distortions and their impact on prices and costs is established at a country-wide level 
rather than for each company. At the same time, as stated at recital (81) of the provisional Regulation, the sources 
to construct normal value when applying the methodology under Article 2(6a), subparagraph (2), third dash may 
include domestic costs, but only to the extent that they are positively established not to be distorted, on the basis of 
accurate and appropriate evidence. Therefore, even if the evidence submitted showed that these parties were not 
affected by distortions in the field of labour costs, credit costs, and energy – quod non – this did not affect the 
application of the methodology under Article 2(6a) as such. In any event, as explained at recitals (82) to (83) of the 
provisional Regulation, and in the absence of the additional relevant evidence at country-wide level, the claims of 
Haomei Group on the lack of distortions were not substantiated with any factual evidence and thus the conclusions 
at recital (77), (79), (81) and (83) of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 
(98) 
Secondly, Haomei Group observed that the provisional Regulation criticises the Chinese economic system, makes 
general statements about the Chinese Governments’ influence on the major industries, and implies that the 
planning made by the central and provincial authorities leads to financial easing for Chinese companies via the 
banking system. Firstly, Haomei Group underlined that the European Governments also grant benefits to the 
European producers, which should be taken into consideration. Secondly, Haomei Group noted that none of the 
factors listed in Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation and quoted in point (70) of the provisional Regulation 
applied to them, because Haomei Group is fully privately owned, not subject to any form of control or directive 
from the Chinese Government and/or from the Chinese Communist Party (‘CCP’). Furthermore, no members of the 
aforementioned institutions were seated in the boards of Haomei Group. 
(99) 
Concerning the first argument, the Commission noted at recital (71) of the provisional Regulation that according to 
Article 2(6a)(b) of the basic Regulation the potential impact of one or more of the distortive elements listed in that 
provision is analysed with regard to prices and costs in the exporting country. The cost structure and price 
formation mechanisms in other markets, including matters related to generic and unsubstantiated financial support, 
such as the alleged generic support granted in the EU, do not bear any relevance whatsoever in the context of this 
proceeding (13). Secondly, as explained at recitals (77) and following, and at recital (103) of the provisional 
Regulation, both exporting producers were eligible for different forms of support, irrespective of their being private 
or public entities. 
(100) In addition, the Commission observes that the argument of Haomei Group that both companies are free from any 
government or party influence does not correspond to reality. The Commission first recalls the substantial body of 
evidence and the conclusions contained at recitals (86) to (90), and in Sections 3.2.1.3 – 3.2.1.5 of the provisional 
Regulation, which show the extent and pervasiveness of the influence of the government and of the CCP in the 
Chinese economy, including the aluminium sector. Neither Haomei Group, nor any other interested party has 
provided any evidence rebutting or undermining these findings. This would already be sufficient to dismiss even 
from a substantive point of view these arguments. In any event, according to research carried out by the 
Commission, it is advertised on the website of Haomei Group that the company is involved into party building 
activities, such as educational activities for employees concerning ‘Xi Jinping’s thoughts on Socialism with Chinese 
Characteristics in the New Era, from the Constitution, Party Constitution and Regulations, the spirit of the 19th 
National Congress of the Communist Party of China, the spirit of the Fourth Plenary Session of the 19th Central 
(13) See e.g. judgment of 28 February 2018 in Case C-301/16 P, Commission v Xinyi PV Products (Anhui), ECLI:EU:C:2018:132, para. 56.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/13   
Committee of the Party, the spirit of Xi Jinping’s important instructions concerning Guangdong […].’ (14) 
Furthermore, the company presents itself as ‘an enterprise with high-quality development guided by Party building’ 
on the Foshan Nanhai Aluminium Profile Industry Association’s website, where Haomei Group is further described 
in the following way: ‘Haomei New Materials has kept being guided for a long time by Xi Jinping’s thoughts of 
Socialism with Chinese Characteristics in the New Era, has kept deeply studying and implementing the spirit of the 
19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, armed with theory; has kept promoting the company’s 
Party building work, and transforming the advantages of Party building work into advantages for the enterprise’s 
development.’ (15) Seen in the context of the Chinese government and party influence as thoroughly described in 
the mentioned recitals and sections of the provisional Regulation, this evidence further undermines the argument 
put forward by this party. 
(101) Third, the exporting producers consider that the legality principle (16) is violated by the findings in recital (77) of the 
provisional Regulation, where the Commission stated that both producers were eligible for financial support, even if 
they received none. According to Haomei Group, by this statement the Commission reverses the burden proof and 
implied liability for acts of another person. With regard to the state financing, that is to be fully rejected because 
Haomei Group would be considered liable for the mere fact of being Chinese companies, even though they were 
never granted public financing and/or subsidies. 
(102) The Commission recalls that Article 2(6a)(b) states that, when assessing the existence of significant distortions, the 
Commission must consider the ‘potential impact’ of the elements listed in that Article. The findings in section 
3.2.1.8 in connection with section 3.2.1.5 of the provisional Regulation show that the Chinese aluminium 
producers do have preferential access to state financing and that there are countrywide distortions with regard to 
access to finance. Therefore, even if Haomei Group did not actually receive any state financing themselves, the 
presence of such distortions in the sector is relevant for the assessment of the existence of distortions under Article 
2(6a)(b). The Commission further recalls that regardless of the exporting producers actually receiving state 
financing, their suppliers or other actors involved in the upstream or downstream markets of the production of the 
product concerned may have benefited from the preferential access to finance, which is an additional indicator that 
prices or costs are not the result of free market forces. On this basis, the claims of these companies could already be 
rejected. 
(103) Nevertheless, the Commission went further to research the accuracy of the claims made by Haomei Group with 
regard to their situation. Contrary to what Haomei Group claimed, according to public information it appeared that 
both companies actually benefitted from loans extended by, among others, State-owned banks, including loans from 
Bank of Communications and Guangfa Bank (17). In addition, Haomei is located in the Qingyuan High-tech Zone, 
which according to the official website of the government of Qingyuan city offers support to companies located 
therein: ‘In recent years, Qingyuan High-tech Zone has vigorously supported the listing of enterprises located in the 
zone, meeting the enterprises’ development needs through multiple channels such as policy support and financing 
guarantees, and shortening the time for enterprises to go public. Afterwards, it will continue to cultivate and 
expand the enterprises within its jurisdiction, take multiple measures to promote these enterprises’ transformation 
and upgrading, improve their competitiveness, and accelerate the pace of their development.’ (18) 
(14) See Haomei website describing a party building competition in December 2019: http://www.haomei-alu.com/Newsview.aspx?i=1179 
(accessed 17 November 2020).
(15) See Foshan Nanhai Aluminium Profile Industry Association’s website describing a party building event that took place in September 
2020: http://www.napa.org.cn/news_detail.php?id=1878 (last accessed on 17 November 2020).
(16) General principle of European Union law (see judgement of 3 December 1998 in Case C-381/97, Belgocodex S.A, ECLI:EU:C:1998:589 
and judgement of 26 April 2005 in Case C-376/02, Stichting ‘Goed Wonen’, ECLI:EU:C:2005:251).
(17) See Guangdong Haomei IPO notice (March 2019): http://pdf.dfcfw.com/pdf/H2_AN201904121318887721_1.pdf (last accessed on 
17 November 2020).
(18) See Qingyuan Municipal Government website, http://www.gdqy.gov.cn/gdqy/zxzx/bmdt/content/post_1171116.html (last accessed 
on 17 November 2020).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/14                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(104) The Commission also found that Haomei is recognised as National Enterprise Technology Centre (19), a status linked 
to certain benefits such as one time financial rewards (20), and preferential tax policies to support technological 
innovation in accordance with relevant national regulations (21). Furthermore, according to the Management 
Measures for the Recognition as National Enterprise Technology Centre published by the GOC, a close relationship 
persists between the State and the enterprises recognised as National Enterprise Technology Centres. Article 1 of 
that document states: ‘The present measures are set out in accordance with the Chinese Law on Science and 
Technology Progress, in order […] to further strengthen the key position of enterprises in technological innovation 
[…].’ According to Article 3 of the same document: ‘The State encourages and supports enterprises building 
Technology Centres, involves enterprises in technological innovation as key players and builds a comprehensive 
institutional mechanism for industry technology and R & D led by enterprises. […] the State […] grants policy 
support, as well as encourages and guides backbone enterprises to raise their capacity to drive industry technology 
progress and innovation.’ (22) On the basis of all these elements, which supplement the findings of subsidies granted 
to Haomei Group as detailed at recital (103) of the provisional Regulation, it is clear that the company benefited 
from preferential policies, access to finance and subsidies, which all contradict the company’s claims of not being 
affected by the relevant elements proving the significant distortions. Therefore, these claims must be rejected also as 
not corresponding to reality. 
(105) Fourth, Haomei Group argued that there have been no accurate confutations of the evidence provided during the 
investigation concerning the lack of distortions. The exporting producers claim that Sections 3.2.1.1 to 3.2.1.10 of 
the Regulation assessed China globally, without specific references to Haomei Group. This, according to Haomei 
Group violates their defensive rights as per Article 6 ECHR on right to a fair trial and Article 47 of the Charter of 
Fundamental Rights of the European Union on right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial and constitutes a 
severe lack of motivation as per the general principle of effectiveness and Article 19 of the Treaty on European 
Union. 
(106) The Commission recalled that, contrary to these claims, the findings of distortions are based on a substantial body of 
evidence and legal assessment as detailed in the entire Section 3.2.1 of the provisional Regulation. The exporting 
producers and all parties had ample opportunity since the initiation of the proceeding to provide arguments and 
evidence concerning the existence or impact of significant distortions in China country-wide, and/or that their 
domestic costs are not distorted in accordance with Article 2(6a)(a), second subparagraph, third dash. Both 
exporting producers did avail themselves of this possibility by making representations on these issues, which are 
being object of this assessment. As explained in this section, apart from general unsubstantiated or untrue 
statements, they failed to present any substantial evidence concerning the absence of distortions country-wide 
and/or that one or more specific factors of production were not distorted in their case. Therefore, this claim was 
rejected. 
(107) Fifth, the same two exporting producers argued that the reported subsidies covered at recital (103) of the provisional 
Regulation were rewards to Haomei Group for implementing ecological and technological improvements. They 
further claimed that their amounts were negligible when compared to the companies’ revenues, namely around 
EUR 1 million contribution against roughly EUR 330 million of revenues. Haomei Group reiterated that the 
rewards granted to them not only must be assessed taking into consideration their limited amount but, above all, 
must be put into relation with similar incentives granted to the European industries, within a comparative analysis 
aiming to evaluate whether they should be considered significant distortion or not. Additionally, the statement from 
the Initial Public Offering (‘IPO’) prospectus that the lack of subsidies would constitute an impact on the enterprise’s 
cash flow and operating results, as quoted in recital (103) of the provisional Regulation, represents a standard clause 
that Chinese companies undertaking an IPO must include in the documents directed to potential subscribers as per 
Chinese laws and regulations. 
(19) See NDRC website, Haomei New Materials listed with number 1197 on the official list of enterprises with the National Enterprise 
Technology Centre Status: https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/202001/P020200109540064113144.pdf
(20) According to Haomei IPO: ‘[Haomei] was recognised as a National Enterprise Technology Center and as a Guangdong Demonstration 
Base for Innovation and Industrialization of SMEs and received national and relevant local policy support’. Available at http://www. 
csrc.gov.cn/pub/zjhpublic/G00306202/201910/P020191015564364143717.pdf
(21) See NDRC website https://www.ndrc.gov.cn/xxgk/zcfb/tz/202001/t20200109_1218736.html
(22) See Management Measures for the Recognition as National Enterprise Technology Centre available at http://www.gov.cn/xinwen/ 
2016-03/24/5057350/files/3d4f511db7454c06a20ece567157662a.pdf (last accessed on 23.11.2020).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/15   
(108) The Commission recalled that, as already explained in recital (102), Article 2(6a) is applicable in case the 
Commission establishes the existence and impact of distortions in the exporting country at a country-wide level. 
Therefore, this claim could already be dismissed on this basis. Nevertheless, the Commission notes that the 
additional elements as detailed in recital (103) and (104) of this Regulation show that this company benefits from 
preferential policies and access to finance, and hence the claim is also not reflecting the truth. As to the magnitude 
of the benefit, there is no requirement that the Commission investigates the scale of the financial benefits listed by 
the exporting producers. In any event, as detailed at recital (103) of the provisional Regulation these transfers 
amount to an appreciable percentage of the company’s profit, and by the company’s own admission, the absence of 
governmental subsidies in the future might have an impact on the company’s cash flow and operating results. 
Therefore, this claim is unfounded also as not corresponding to the reality of the situation. Lastly, as also explained 
at recital (99) of this Regulation, the comparison with the situation of the European companies is completely 
irrelevant from a legal point of view in light of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, in addition to being generic 
and not substantiated by any evidence. 
(109) The GOC submitted a number of comments to the provisional Regulation. First, with regard to the Commission Staff 
Working Document on Significant Distortions in the Economy of the People’s Republic of China (23) (hereafter 
‘Report’), the GOC argued that a staff working document was not adequate for the purpose of proving distortions. 
This is because, Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation required the Commission to produce a report regarding the 
existence of significant distortions in a certain country or a certain sector in that country. However, according to 
GOC, a staff working document did not meet such requirement, as there was no evidence indicating that the 
document was approved or endorsed by the Commission at or after the publication. Therefore, the GOC claimed 
that there were serious doubts regarding whether such document could be regarded as the official position of the 
Commission and whether its legal status met the requirement of basic Regulation 2(6a) of the Commission making, 
publishing and updating reports. The GOC further reminded that the reply of the Commission to a similar question 
in the anti-dumping case on hot-rolled stainless steel sheets did not specify whether such working document could 
represent the official position of the EU and did not clarify its legal nature. 
(110) The Commission noted that Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic Regulation does not prescribe a specific format for the 
reports on significant distortions, neither does that provision define a channel for publication. The Commission 
recalled that the report is a fact-based technical document used only in the context of trade defence investigations. 
The report is therefore appropriately issued as a Commission staff working document as it is purely descriptive and 
does not express any political views, preferences or judgements. That does not affect its content, namely the 
objective sources of information concerning the existence of significant distortions in the Chinese economy 
relevant for the purpose of the application of Article 2 (6a)(c) of the basic Regulation. 
(111) The Commission further noted that the objective sources of information contained in the Report may be used as 
relevant evidence in the Commission findings in anti-dumping investigations in the context of the application of 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation, together with any other relevant elements and evidence not contained in the 
Report. The existence of a report covering a country or a sector is not a legal requirement for the application of 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. What counts in this respect is the existence of reliable evidence, whether 
contained in a country or sectoral Report or elsewhere, as long as it is relevant for the findings concerning the 
existence of significant distortions. Therefore, also from this point of view the nature and the form of the Report is 
not relevant for the actual findings on the significant distortions under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(112) In this investigation, the report, including the evidence contained therein, is part of the evidence on file justifying the 
application of Article 2(6a). The Commission has used substantial additional evidence specific to the investigation 
and the claims put forward by the parties not included in the report. More importantly, the GOC has not provided 
any evidence that the information in the report was not valid or inapplicable for this investigation. In any event, the 
(23) Commission Staff Working Document on Significant Distortions in the Economy of the People’s Republic of China for the purposes 
of Trade Defence Investigations, 20 December 2017, SWD(2017) 483 final/2.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/16                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Commission recalls that the existence of a country report is not a necessary condition for the application of 
Article 2(6a). What counts for the application of the methodology under Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation are 
the findings that the significant distortions are relevant in the case at hand, as is the case in this investigation. 
Therefore this claim was rejected. 
(113) Secondly, the GOC submitted that the content of the China report and the ways it is used had serious factual and 
legal flaws. According to the GOC, the content was misrepresentative, one-sided, and out of touch with reality. The 
working document treated the legitimate competitive advantages of Chinese companies and the normal 
institutional differences between China and Europe as the basis for the determination of significant market 
distortion. Furthermore, the GOC claimed that by accepting the investigation application submitted by the domestic 
industries based on the country report, the Commission provided its industry with unfair advantages, which equalled 
to making judgments before trial. Additionally, the GOC claimed that replacing investigations with reports did not 
conform to the fundamental legal spirit of fairness and justice. 
(114) In reply to the claim on factual flaws in the country report, the Commission noted that the country report is a 
comprehensive document based on extensive objective evidence, including legislation, regulations and other official 
policy documents published by the GOC, third party reports from international organisations, academic studies and 
articles by scholars, and other reliable independent sources. It was made publicly available since December 2017 so 
that any interested party would have ample opportunity to rebut, supplement or comment on it and the evidence on 
which it is based. The GOC has refrained from providing any such rebuttal or comment on the substance and 
evidence contained in the report ever since its release in December 2017. 
(115) Regarding the argument of the GOC suggesting the issuing of a country report replaced the actual investigation, the 
Commission recalled that according to Article 2(6a)(e), if the Commission deems the evidence submitted by the 
complainant on the significant distortions sufficient, it can initiate the investigation on this basis. However, the 
determination on the actual existence and impact of significant distortions and the consequent use of the 
methodology prescribed by Article 2(6a)(a) occurs at the time of the provisional and/or final disclosure as result of 
an investigation. The existence and impact of the significant distortions are not confirmed at initiation stage as 
claimed by the GOC, but only after an in-depth investigation, hence this argument is rejected. 
(116) Third, the GOC commented that the Commission only issued staff working documents for a few selected countries, 
which was enough to raise concerns about most-favoured nation treatment and national treatment (‘NT’). In terms of 
most-favoured nation, regardless of whether the staff of the Commission was considering drafting similar 
documents for other countries, up to this point, the Commission staff only drafted the documents regarding 
Chinese and Russian market. In addition, the GOC claimed that the Commission never published a clear and 
predictable standard for choosing the countries or sectors to publish reports. 
(117) The Commission recalled that, as provided for by Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic Regulation, a country report shall be 
produced for any country only where the Commission has well-founded indications of the possible existence of 
significant distortions in a certain country or sector in that country. Upon approval of the new provisions of Article 
2(6a) of the basic Regulation in December 2017, the Commission had such indications of significant distortions for 
China. The Commission also published a report on distortions in Russia and does not exclude that other reports will 
follow. Since the majority of trade defence investigation (‘TDI’) cases concerned China and since there were serious 
indications of distortions in that country, it was the first country for which the Commission drafted a report. Russia 
is the country with the second most TDI cases, hence there were objective reasons for the Commission to prepare 
reports on those two countries in this order. 
(118) Furthermore, as stated above, the reports are not mandatory to apply Article 2(6a). Article 2(6a)(c) describe the 
conditions for the Commission to issue country reports, however according to Article 2(6a)(d) the complainants are 
not obliged to use the report nor, following Article 2(6a)(e), is the existence of a country report a condition to initiate 
an investigation under Article 2(6a). In fact, according to Article 2(6a)(e), sufficient evidence proving significant 
distortions in any country brought by the complainants fulfilling the criteria of Article 2(6a)(b) is enough to initiate 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/17   
the investigation on that basis. Therefore, the rules concerning country-specific significant distortions apply to all 
countries without any distinction, irrespective of the existence of the country report. Therefore, by definition the 
rules concerning country distortions do not violate the most favoured nation treatment. Therefore, the Commission 
rejected these claims. 
(119) The GOC added that in terms of NT, the concept of market distortions or corresponding standards did not exist in 
the EU’s legislation regarding internal market or competition apart from the basic Regulation. Therefore, the GOC 
argued that the Commission had no authority in terms of international law nor any legislation and practices under 
its exclusive competence in the internal market or competition regulation to investigate the distortions in China. 
(120) The Commission based its methodology in this investigation on the provision of Article 2(6a) of the basic anti- 
dumping Regulation. As each regulation, once formally approved by the European Parliament and the Council, it is 
legally binding and the Commission is obliged to apply it in its entirety as it forms part of the acquis. It is legally 
irrelevant that other European laws do not use the concept of significant distortions, since it is specific to the area of 
anti-dumping. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(121) Furthermore, the GOC commented that the Commission applied discriminative rules and standards against Chinese 
companies when they were in similar situations as the EU companies, including but not limited to unfair standards of 
evidence and burden of proof. At the same time, the Commission did not evaluate whether the EU or the Member 
States had market distortions. This set of practices seriously affected the reliability and legitimacy of the 
Commission’s analysis and conclusions on the core issues in anti-dumping investigations regarding dumping and 
injury calculation. Thus, it is enough to raise concerns about a potential breach of national treatment obligations 
under WTO rules. 
(122) The GOC did not provide any evidence showing that the EU companies would be subject to distortions comparable 
to those of their Chinese competitors and would thus be in a similar situation. In any event, the concept of significant 
distortions is relevant in the context of the determination of normal value for the determination of dumping, 
whereas this concept is legally irrelevant for the Union industry in the specific context of anti-dumping 
investigations. Therefore this claim was considered unsubstantiated and legally irrelevant. 
(123) Sixth, the GOC submitted that provisions of Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation is inconsistent with Article 2.2 of 
the ADA, which provides an exhaustive list of situations where the normal value can be constructed and significant 
distortions are not included therein. The GOC further claimed that the use of data from an appropriate 
representative country or international prices to construct normal value according to Article 2(6a) was also 
inconsistent with GATT Article 6.1(b) and Article 2.2 of the ADA, especially Article 2.2.1.1. The GOC further 
argued that the WTO rules required using the cost of production in the country of origin plus a reasonable amount 
for administrative, selling and general costs and for profits when constructing normal value. However, Article 2(6a) 
of the basic Regulation broadened the scope of data source to include the costs of production and sale in an 
appropriate representative country, or international prices, costs or benchmarks. This was beyond the scope of 
WTO rules according to the GOC. Therefore, no matter whether the EU basic Regulation 2(5) is in line with the 
WTO rules or not, the Commission should not construct normal value when there is so-called ‘market distortion’ 
based on the authorization of the basic Regulation Article 2(6a). 
(124) The Commission considers that the provision of Article 2(6a) is consistent with the European Union’s WTO 
obligations. It is the Commission’s view that, as clarified in DS473 EU-Biodiesel (Argentina), the provisions of the 
basic Regulation that apply generally with respect to all WTO Members, in particular Article 2(5), second 
subparagraph, permit the use of data from a third country, duly adjusted when such adjustment is necessary and 
substantiated. Therefore, the Commission rejected this claim. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/18                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(125) The GOC submitted that in this case, the Commission directly disregarded the records of the Chinese exporters, 
which was inconsistent with Article 2.2.1.1 of ADA. The GOC argued that the Appellate Body in EU-Biodiesel 
(Argentina) (DS473) and the panel in EU-Cost Adjustment Methodologies II (Russia) (DS494) asserted that according to 
Article 2.2.1.1 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement, as long as the records kept by the exporter or producer under 
investigation corresponded – within acceptable limits – in an accurate and reliable manner, to all the actual costs 
incurred by the particular producer or exporter for the product under investigation, the investigation authority 
should use such record to determine the production cost of the investigated producers. 
(126) The Commission recalled that the disputes DS473 and DS494 did not concern the application of Article 2(6a) of the 
basic Regulation, which is the relevant legal basis for the determination of normal value in this investigation. These 
disputes also concerned different factual situations than the factual situation concerning the existence of significant 
distortions. Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(127) Eight, the GOC submitted that the investigation conducted by the Commission based on Article 2(6a) of the basic 
Regulation in this case had double standards. According to the GOC, the Commission refused to accept the cost 
data of Chinese exporters on grounds that there were significant market distortions in the Chinese market, but it 
accepted the representative country’s data and used it to replace the Chinese producers’ data without any evaluation 
of whether there may be market distortions affecting these replacing data. This, according to the GOC, is a proof of 
‘double standards’. The GOC submitted that this approach failed to guarantee the reliability of the relevant costs in 
the selected representative country. Moreover, it was impossible to truly reflect the cost of the producers in the 
country of origin. 
(128) The Commission recalled that during the investigation the Commission considers whether there are elements on file 
pointing to the existence of any distortions present in the representative countries, also namely with regard to the 
main raw materials used for the production of the product concerned, for example whether they are subject to 
export restrictions. Furthermore, during the investigation there is ample opportunity for all parties to argue on the 
appropriateness of the potential representative countries considered by the Commission. In particular, the 
Commission publishes two notes to the file on the appropriateness of the possible representative countries and a 
preliminary choice of an appropriate country for the investigation. These notes are made available to all parties for 
their comments. Also in this case, the GOC and all other parties had the possibility to prove that the possible 
representative countries considered were affected by significant distortions and were thus not suitable for the 
investigation. Therefore, this claim was unfounded and was rejected. 
(129) In reaction to the submission by the GOC, Airoldi subsequently submitted comments on the submission by the 
GOC. Airoldi underlined its endorsement concerning China’s arguments concerning the legality of the staff working 
document. First, Airoldi submitted that Article 2(6a)(c) of the basic Regulation set the requirement that the 
document at issue must be a report and must be adopted formally by the European Commission. They further 
argued that the report needed to be made public and updated. Therefore, according to Airoldi, the document relied 
upon in the present investigation and published on the internet Site of DG TRADE, was not updated, and was a 
simple Commission’s staff working document, lacked the formal and substantive characteristics for being 
considered a formal European Commission report. Furthermore, as a matter of EU Institutional law, such a report 
needed to be published in all official languages of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
Additionally, Airoldi requested that DG TRADE provided it with an Italian version of this document and the issue of 
the Official Journal of the European Union where it was published. At the same time, Airoldi noted that the China 
report was published on DG TRADE’s internet Site in the English language only. Therefore, the China report needed 
to be disregarded and the provisional regulation based on the report should be repealed. Furthermore, Airoldi made 
a specific request for disclosure in the present anti-dumping proceeding for all preparatory documents in whatever 
form related to the internal procedure followed within the European Commission to adopt the China report. 
(130) As already explained in particular at recitals (110) to (112) about the value of the China report, the provisions of 
Article 2(6a)(c) do not prescribe a specific format in which a country report needs to be published, nor its channel 
of publication. Therefore the publication of the China report as a staff working document, a type of document 
which does not require translation into all European languages, nor formal publication in the Official Journal of the 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/19   
European Union, complies with the relevant rules. In reply to these claims, the Commission notes that the report has 
been publicly available since December 2017 so that any interested party would have ample opportunity to rebut, 
supplement or comment on it and the evidence on which it is based. No evidence was provided by Airoldi, or any 
other interested party, which would have shown that the report is outdated. Therefore, this argument is rejected. 
With regard to the request for disclosure of the preparatory documents, the Commission refers to recital (50) above. 
(131) Second, Airoldi submitted that as a consequence of the above arguments (the fact that the China report is a staff 
working document, published on DG TRADE website in the English language only), the China report was an 
unlawful document. Therefore, Airoldi argued that such evidence shall be disregarded and the complaint needed to 
be declared unfounded. Furthermore, the provisional Regulation which relied on China report had to be 
immediately repealed. 
(132) This argument is a reiteration of GOCs comments in recital (109). The Commission replied to this comment in 
recitals (110) to (112). 
(133) Following final disclosure, Haomei Group submitted a set of comments concerning the existence of significant 
distortions mainly reiterating the arguments made before during the investigation. First, Haomei Group reiterated, 
that they do not agree that the country Report is a comprehensive enough and a sufficient evidence of the existence 
of distortions. Furthermore, Haomei Group reiterated that they were not subject to any government intervention, 
received loans at undistorted interest rate and that the subsidy received was of minor value. Additionally, the 
Haomei Group argued that they were not affected by beneficial lending terms and other financial incentives 
provided by the government and added Commission’s findings concerning credits were generic and not applicable 
to Haomei Group. 
(134) With regard to the objectivity of the report and its suitability as evidence, the Commission notes, as already 
explained in recital (114), that the country report is a comprehensive document based on extensive objective 
evidence, including legislation, regulations and other official policy documents published by the GOC, third party 
reports from international organisations, academic studies and articles by scholars, and other reliable independent 
sources. 
(135) On benefits, such as cheaper loans and subsidies, the Commission reiterates, as already stated in recitals (97), (99) 
and (102) of this regulation and in recitals (77) and (79) and following of the provisional Regulation, that in 
accordance with Article 2(6a)(b), in assessing the existence of significant distortions regard shall be had, inter alia, 
the potential impact of one or more of the elements listed in that provision. Therefore, it is crucial to assess whether 
the producers of aluminium extrusions have, at least potentially, access to cheaper financing and more favourable 
conditions than their counterparts elsewhere. Since the aluminium industry is subject to numerous plans and 
directive by the government, the Commission found in recitals (77) and (79) and following of the provisional 
Regulation, that the producers of aluminium extrusions, including Haomei Group, are at least potentially affected 
by the distortions in the aluminium extrusions sector in China. 
(136) Secondly, Haomei Group argued that the party building activities mentioned by the Commission in recital (100) of 
this Regulation are cultural facts but do not amount to an evidence of political distortion. 
(137) The Commission quoted some examples of party building activities exercised by Haomei Group in response to their 
comment in recital (98), in which Haomei Group claimed to be free from interference from party or the government. 
As quoted in recital (100) of this Regulation, Haomei Group clearly states that they are guided by the ‘Party building’, 
as well as guided by ‘Xi Jinping’s thoughts of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics in the New Era, […] 
implementing the spirit of the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China’. Even if, as claimed by 
Haomei Group, there are no CCP members in the board of directors of the two companies of the Haomei Group, it 
is under influence of the government and, as stated above, actively present itself as implementing the policy of the 
government and following its official agenda. No evidence was adduced to the contrary. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/20                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(138) Haomei Group submitted that its prices were not distorted, which is proven by the fact that its prices were aligned 
with the European prices. 
(139) The Commission recalls that according to Article 2(6a)(a) of the basic Regulation, if it is not appropriate to use 
domestic prices and costs in the exporting country due to the existence in that country of significant distortions, 
the normal value shall be constructed exclusively on the basis of costs of production and sale reflecting undistorted 
prices or benchmarks. In the case at hand, the Commission found existence of significant distortions in the sector of 
aluminium extrusions in China, as explained in section 3.2.1 of the provisional Regulation. Therefore, the level of 
prices of Chinese exporting producers is not relevant in this case. 
(140) Following the final disclosure, Haomei Group submitted that they were considered responsible not for their own 
behaviour but for features of the Chinese economy assessed in a generic way. 
(141) The specific findings of dumping and companies’ rates reflect the data submitted by the companies themselves, 
calculated in accordance with the provisions of the basic Regulation, in particular Article 2(6a). As explained in 
recital (106), the existence of significant distortions is country-wide and, once distortions are demonstrated, that 
methodology applies in principle to all companies. Neither of the companies has demonstrated that the distortions 
found by the Commission do not affect their costs. Therefore, the final margins of dumping reflect the behaviour of 
the companies, taking into account the existence of significant distortions in China, where they operate. 
3.2. Representative country 
(142) In the provisional Regulation, the Commission selected Turkey as the representative country in accordance with 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. 
(143) The GOC claimed that the Commission incorrectly replaced the producers’ data without any evaluation of whether 
there may be market distortions affecting these replaced data. 
(144) The Commission invited comments of interested parties on the selection of Turkey as the representative country in a 
transparent process involving two notes on the sources for the determination of the normal value (of 16 March 
2020 and of 25 June 2020). The Commission eliminated a number of other potential representative countries. 
Since the Commission did not find market distortions in Turkey that would make it not suitable as a representative 
country, it concluded that Turkey was the most appropriate representative country. 
(145) Airoldi repeated its comment concerning the choice of Turkey as the representative country with regard to 
differentiation between hard and soft alloys. As explained in recital (164) of the provisional Regulation, product 
types are not determinant for the selection of an appropriate representative country. The Commission therefore 
maintained that Turkey was the most appropriate representative country in this case. 
(146) Following final disclosure, Airoldi repeated its comment concerning the choice of Turkey as a representative country. 
Airoldi added new elements in their comments against the choice of Turkey that concerned two main arguments: the 
Turkey’s Customs Union with the Union, and that Turkey did not fulfil social and environmental protection 
standards. 
(147) Airoldi failed to explain why the Customs Union would make Turkey an inappropriate representative country. As 
explained in the Regulation, the Commission took into account customs duties in order to establish the value for 
each factors of production. This is done in order to arrive at the price of the factor of production in the 
representative country. The fact that there is a customs union is irrelevant for the determination of this price. Even 
if Airoldi’s argument was correct, quod non, the normal value would be underestimated and, as a result, the dumping 
margin would be lower, therefore benefiting rather than in detriment of the importer. As for social and 
environmental standards, as explained in the Second Note on the Sources for the Determination of the Normal 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/21   
Value of 25 June 2020, Turkey was found to be the most appropriate representative country in this case on the basis 
of availability and quality of data. In the absence of any claim that would invalidate that finding, an analysis of those 
standards was not warranted. 
(148) Following final disclosure, Haomei Group contested the normal value ‘construed according to the Turkish 
parameters, especially in the light of the values taken into consideration as a benchmark, that are neither actual 
(they are from 2016), nor accurate […]’. 
(149) The only factor of production based on data from 2016 used in the calculation was labour costs. This was clearly 
explained in the Note of 16 March 2020. The 2016 value was ‘adjusted for inflation using the domestic producer 
price index (24) published by the Turkish statistical institute’. Therefore not only all the other factors were based on 
recent available data, but the only one that Haomei Group appears to refer to in the comments was in fact adjusted. 
Therefore Haomei Group’s comment was dismissed as factually incorrect. 
(150) Haomei Group also submitted that Turkey was not an appropriate choice of representative country due to a 
difference of its population compared to China. 
(151) In this regard, the Commission notes that the level of development and not the size of the population is fundamental 
in the choice of representative country. Turkey has the same level of development of China according to the World 
Bank classification (upper middle income) and therefore is an appropriate representative country for the purpose of 
Article 2(6a) of the basic Regulation. Therefore, Haomei Group’s claim was rejected. 
(152) Therefore, for the reasons explained in the provisional Regulation, the Commission confirms its selection of Turkey 
as the representative country as no compelling arguments were put forward against the choice of Turkey following 
the adoption of the provisional Regulation. 
3.3. Sources used to establish undistorted costs 
(153) As explained in recitals (166) to (184) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission identified the following 
sources to establish undistorted costs: the Global Trade Atlas, national statistics including the Turkish Statistical 
Institute to establish labour costs, electricity costs and gas costs and OECD for diesel prices. Following the disclosure 
of the provisional findings, the Commission did not receive any substantiated claims on market distortions affecting 
the data and the sources used. 
(154) In the absence of further comments with respect to the sources used to establish undistorted costs the Commission 
maintains those sources listed the provisional Regulation. 
3.4. Manufacturing overheads costs, SG&A and profit 
(155) The combined level of SG&A and profit used in the provisional Regulation was based on data for the year 2018. The 
Commission checked the availability of more recent data for SG&A and profit in the representative country for 
2019. This data showed that the combined level of SG&A and profits increased only very marginally in 2019. This 
would not have a noticeable impact on calculations. In light of this, and in the absence of any comments by 
interested parties with respect to manufacturing overheads costs, SG&A and profit levels listed in the provisional 
Regulation, the Commission maintained those levels. 
(156) Following final disclosure Haomei Group challenged that the ‘price charged’ by Turkish companies ‘could be an 
element of comparison’. The Commission explained in detail the way of calculating the dumping margin in the 
exporting producer individual disclosure, but also in the two notes on the sources for the determination of the 
normal value made available to all parties in the case file. In none of those documents the Commission made any 
(24) www.turkstat.gov.tr
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/22                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
reference to prices charged by any of the Turkish companies to be used at any step of determination of the Normal 
Value. Turkish companies were used only as the source of SG&A and profit values. Thus, Haomei Group’s claim is 
factually incorrect. 
(157) Following final disclosure, the complainant repeated its claim that the Commission should exclude from the 
calculation of the average profit margin the two Turkish companies with the lowest profit, as these were far from 
the 16 % profit margin that was made by one EU producer in the absence of dumped imports. 
(158) As explained in recital (171) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission excluded those companies that did not 
report any profit. All profitable companies were taken into account, irrespective of their profit level, as long as they 
were not loss making. The level of profitability achieved by one of the Union producers is not relevant when 
determining the appropriate profit level for the construction of the normal value on the basis of undistorted data in 
the representative country. The Commission therefore rejected this claim. 
3.5. Calculation of the Normal Value 
(159) The Commission received comments from an exporting producer, PMI Group, concerning the changes in VAT rates 
during the IP. The Commission adjusted the calculation of the Normal Value following this comment, as described in 
more detail in recitals (185) to (187). Other than that, all other calculations regarding the normal value in the 
provisional Regulation are confirmed. 
(160) Following final disclosure, Haomei Group submitted an unclear claim which seems to challenge the level of the 
interest rate applied as allowances for export sales of Haomei Group. The Commission notes that the rates applied 
as the allowance were based on interest rates provided by Haomei Group itself and checked during the RCC. 
(161) Haomei Group reiterated that the method of calculating the average price concerning European extrusions was 
allegedly flawed because it placed ‘in the same basket heterogeneous products in terms of characteristics and price’. 
(162) Following additional final disclosure, Haomei Group repeated its comment that due to distinction based on different 
alloys, fabrications, specifications the Commission must not consider the product under investigation as one single 
product. 
(163) As explained in detail in recitals (232) to (234) of the provisional Regulation, the referred price comparisons were 
made on a type-by-type transaction level, where detailed product control numbers ensured fair comparison. The 
reason for it was precisely to make the comparison of similar products, and this was the aim for the product 
control number to include elements like shapes and form, alloy series, length, maximum cross-sectional dimension, 
type of finishes, type of fabrication and drawing. The allegation made by Haomei Group was unjustified and 
therefore rejected. 
3.6. Export price 
(164) As described in recital (196) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission made an adjustment under Article 2(9) 
of the basic Regulation for the export sales through related traders to independent customers in the Union. 
(165) PMI Group commented that the importer profit margin used to construct the export price for indirect sales via 
related importers was too high, and questioned whether it had been adequately checked. The Commission 
confirmed that the margin used at the provisional stage was correct based on information available at the time, and 
that it originated from the sampled importers. In any event, after remote cross checking this margin was increased 
slightly and details of the revised data used were made available to the company concerned. This revised margin was 
also used to recalculate the undercutting and injury elimination level shown below. 
(166) The Commission thus adjusted the calculation of the dumping margin for one of the exporting producer groups as 
the result of the above revision. All other calculations regarding export price in the provisional Regulation are 
confirmed. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/23   
(167) Following final disclosure, Haomei Group submitted that the Commission wrongly used cost of shipping that ‘as of 
today’ were significantly more expensive. The Commission recalls that all calculations are based on the investigation 
period. With regard to dumping, calculations are based on actual costs provided by Haomei Group. The fact that the 
costs of shipping, according to Haomei Group, increased by 300 % after the investigation period is not relevant; just 
like for all other costs, the cost of shipping during the investigation period is what must be used. 
3.7. Undertaking offers 
(168) Prior to final disclosure, one Chinese exporting producer expressed interest in submitting a voluntary undertaking 
offer, but did not do so in the terms which are permissible under Article 8 of the basic Regulation. 
(169) Following final disclosure, within the deadline specified in Article 8(2) of the basic Regulation, three exporting 
producers submitted offers for a price undertaking: Haomei Group, Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight Equipment 
Co., Ltd. and Jilin Qixing Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd. 
(170) According to Article 8 of the basic anti-dumping Regulation, the price undertaking offers must be adequate to 
eliminate the injurious effect of dumping and their acceptance must not be considered impractical. The 
Commission assessed offers in view of these criteria and considered that its acceptance would be impractical for the 
following reasons. 
(171) The offer put forward by Haomei Group would not, if accepted, eliminate the injurious effect of dumping. 
Furthermore the offer did not contain the essential element of an undertaking: a minimum import price (‘MIP’) 
below which it commits not to sell. The offer is thus incompatible with the underlying principles of an undertaking. 
(172) Haomei Group has a number of related companies directly involved in production or sales of the product under 
investigation. Haomei Group sells the product directly and indirectly. 
(173) Such a complex group structure bears high risks of cross-compensation. The Commission would not be able to 
monitor and ensure compliance with the undertaking of the indirect sales via the related company in Hong Kong 
and possibly via the other related companies. This, on its own, would make the offer impractical. 
(174) Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight Equipment Co., Ltd. and Jilin Qixing Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd. offered a MIP 
subject to an indexation. 
(175) Both companies produce and sell various product types with significant differences in prices. The weighted average 
injury margin used for minimum import price calculation would be below the non-injurious price for the majority 
of product types exported to the Union by those companies. Therefore, the level of MIP proposed was not sufficient 
to remove the injurious effect of dumping. 
(176) In addition, Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight Equipment Co., Ltd. has a high number of related companies in China, 
many of which are directly involved in the production and sale of the product under investigation on the domestic 
market. The company structure increases the risks of circumvention. 
(177) Aluminium extrusion types and models cannot be easily distinguished from one another by a physical inspection. In 
particular, it would be very difficult to assess the alloy series only by physical inspection. Without a detailed lab 
analysis the customs authorities would not be able to determine whether the imported product corresponds to 
what is being declared. 
(178) The high number of product types entails a high risk of cross-compensation among the different product types, with 
more expensive product types possibly being misdeclared as cheaper product types also subject to the undertaking. 
This renders the undertaking unenforceable and thus impractical within the meaning of Article 8 of the basic 
Regulation. 
(179) The Commission sent letters to the applicants, setting out the reasons to reject the undertaking offers. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/24                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(180) All three applicants listed in recital (169) submitted comments thereto. These comments were made available to 
interested parties on the case file. 
(181) Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight Equipment Co., Ltd. and Jilin Qixing Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd. did not agree 
with the Commission’s conclusion that the proposed MIP was not sufficient to remove the injurious effect of 
dumping. The parties also proposed to replace the price references published by the Shanghai Metals Market with 
references published by the London Metal Exchange. However, the comments and proposed changes have not 
removed the elements making the undertaking offers unenforceable. 
(182) Haomei Group, neither proposed to eliminate the injurious effect of dumping nor added any essential elements of an 
undertaking, as explained in recital (171). The offer thus remained incompatible with the underlying principles of an 
undertaking. 
(183) Following additional final disclosure, Haomei Group reiterated its request urging the Commission to consider its 
undertaking offer, without bringing any new elements, neither with regard to elimination of the injurious effect of 
dumping, nor missing elements explained in recital (171). Instead, Haomei Group’s view was that, as measures 
would not withstand Court scrutiny, undertakings should be accepted. The Commission recalls that the Union is an 
État de Droit where administrations take decisions following the provisions of the law, which are not the subject of 
barter or negotiation. 
(184) The Commission considered the undertaking offers unenforceable and thus impractical within the meaning of 
Article 8 of the basic Regulation, for the reasons set out in recitals (171) to (183) and therefore rejected the offers. 
3.8. Comparison 
(185) As described in recital (199) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission made an adjustment under Article 
2(10)(b) of the basic Regulation for the difference in indirect taxes between export sales from China to the Union 
and the normal value where indirect taxes such as VAT have been excluded. 
(186) PMI Group’s comments concerned mainly the fact that the VAT rates in China changed twice since the 2018 and the 
rate of 17 % used in the calculation of VAT adjustment. These changes occurred on 1 May 2018 and 1 April 2019 
when VAT rates changed to 16 % and 13 % respectively. 
(187) After taking into account the above comment, the Commission adjusted the calculation for both sampled groups of 
exporting producers. 
(188) On this basis, the weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty 
unpaid, are as follows:                                                              
Company 
Definitive anti-dumping 
duty 
Haomei Group: 
— Guangdong Haomei New Materials Co., Ltd., 
— Guangdong King Metal Light Alloy Technology Co., Ltd. 
21,3 % 
PMI Group: 
— Press Metal International Ltd., 
— Press Metal International Technology Ltd. 
33,9 % 
Other cooperating companies 
28,6 % 
All other companies 
40,1 %   
(189) Excluding export sales to the UK of the sampled exporting producers, which continue to be representative 
accounting for 20 % of total exports to the Union, dumping margins are as follows: 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/25   
Company 
Dumping margin 
Haomei Group: 
— Guangdong Haomei New Materials Co., Ltd., 
— Guangdong King Metal Light Alloy Technology Co., Ltd. 
21,2 % 
PMI Group: 
— Press Metal International Ltd., 
— Press Metal International Technology Ltd. 
25,0 % 
Other cooperating exporting producers outside the sample 
22,1 % 
All other companies 
32,1 %   
(190) For the cooperating exporting producers not included in the sample, the Commission calculated the weighted 
average dumping margin, in accordance with Article 9(6) of the basic Regulation. This margin was calculated as a 
weighted average on the basis of the margins established for the sampled exporting producers, thus amounting to 
22,1 %. The Commission considers appropriate to continue setting the residual duty at the level of the highest 
dumping margin established on the basis of the data of the cooperating exporting producers, namely 32,1 %, 
excluding UK data. 
(191) Following the additional final disclosure, Haomei Group requested an explanation as to why other exporting 
producers’ margins has considerably lowered while the difference in its margin was small. The company considered 
these differences and its new dumping duty to be discriminatory. It also claimed that no detailed and dedicated 
calculations had been provided to the interested parties. 
(192) It is first recalled that Haomei Group itself challenged the Commission’s findings on a EU-28 basis. Haomei Group 
claimed that since the UK was no longer part of the European Union, the Commission should have conducted a 
EU-27 examination. This claim was addressed as the Commission recalculated the dumping margin for all 
exporting producers (and reassessed injury and causation) accordingly. 
(193) The Commission in recitals (185) to (190) explained the methodology of calculating the dumping margin, and that 
methodology has been exactly the same when the dumping margin excluding UK data was calculated. Haomei 
Group’s final disclosure included additional confidential, much more detailed, documents on dumping and injury 
margin calculation and methodology. The reason for the higher effect on PMI Group was linked to differences in 
pricing, destination, product mix and other issues specific to the company. The recalculation of all dumping 
margins of the sampled companies also resulted in the change of dumping duties for all other exporting producers, 
as explained in recital (190). This was in fact explained to the company during a hearing held on 12 February. 
(194) In addition, Haomei Group’s request for the disclosure of the other sampled exporting producer’s dumping 
calculation must be rejected. The calculation is based on confidential information and can only be disclosed to the 
company to which it refers. This is also the case of Haomei Group’s calculations, which were not disclosed to any 
other interested party in this investigation. 
(195) Following additional final disclosure, Haomei Group made number of comments referring to differences in data and 
methodology for injury calculations compared to dumping calculations. 
(196) These differences emanate from the fact that the determination of dumping and the determination of injury are 
different. The two methodologies are described in two separate Articles of the basic Regulation (Article 2 and 
Article 3 of the basic Regulation, respectively). Recitals (187) to (200) of the provisional Regulation describe in 
detail the methodology of the calculation of the normal value for the determination of dumping. Recitals (330) to 
(345) of the provisional Regulation describe in detail the methodology of calculation of the non-injurious price for 
the determination of the margin adequate to remove the injury to the Union industry. Allegations made by Haomei 
Group were unjustified and therefore rejected. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/26                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
4. INJURY BASED ON EU-28 
4.1. General remarks 
(197) Certain interested parties claimed that the provisional analysis of injury and causation was flawed because it did not 
analyse certain parts of the market separately. More specifically it was claimed that separate analyses were required 
for hard and soft alloys, medium and large size profiles, standard and special profiles and by market segment. 
However, for the reasons mentioned above at recitals (55) to (56), the Commission confirmed that the product 
under investigation should be treated as one single product. Furthermore, because of the number of proposed 
criteria and of the fact that no clear distinction exists for many of them, an injury analysis following such a 
methodology would be impracticable and inappropriate. In addition, the Union industry is active in all parts of the 
market mentioned above, and faces competition from dumped Chinese imports for all these product types. 
Moreover, both the Union and Chinese producers can produce a number of product types and can decide to 
concentrate on some of them when the market conditions allow. For this reason, the Chinese producers exercise 
price pressure across the product range, including for products which the Union industry can produce upon 
request. Therefore, the Commission confirmed that its analysis of injury in this investigation was performed for the 
entire product under investigation as defined in Section 2 of this Regulation, and for the Union industry as a whole. 
After final disclosure, Haomei Group contested the approach mentioned above concerning the product concerned 
being treated as one single product. According to this exporting producer, this approach is crucial for determining 
its undercutting and/or underselling. As explained in the following recital and in recitals (246) to (249), there is no 
connection between the determination of the product as one single product, and the price comparisons, which are 
performed on a product type basis. Haomei Group restated this argument after additional final disclosure. Given 
that the method for calculation did not change in the EU-27 analysis, also this comment cannot be accepted for the 
same reasons highlighted above. 
(198) Following additional final disclosure Airoldi and Euranimi stated that the one single product analysis for the injury 
indicators had not been followed in respect of imports from China. However, this argument is factually incorrect; as 
can be seen at Tables 1bis and 2bis where the total imports from China have been calculated and their impact 
assessed on that basis. Airoldi and Euranimi also stated that the Commission should have analysed the impact of the 
various CN codes (such as 7608 2089) individually. However, the Commission confirms that it has performed a one 
single analysis for the reasons explained at recitals (55) to (56). 
(199) The Commission further confirmed that in respect of undercutting and underselling margins, the price comparisons 
were performed on the basis of objective criteria on a type for type basis, as explained in recital (234) of the 
provisional Regulation. For more than 95 % of Chinese imports a directly matching product type produced and 
sold by the sampled Union producers was found. 
4.2. Definition of the Union industry and Union production 
(200) In the absence of any comments with respect to the definition of the Union industry and Union production the 
conclusions set out in recitals (208) to (209) of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 
4.3. Imports from the country concerned 
General 
(201) A clear case of significant injury via prices emerged at provisional stage. Continuous pressure was exerted by 
abnormally low Chinese prices, which were significantly below Union industry prices (undercutting) and costs plus 
target profit (underselling). Through the market mechanisms described in recitals (279) and (280) of the provisional 
Regulation, this pressure had multiple implications: inter alia, it suppressed Union industry prices, prevented those 
prices from reflecting the international increase in raw material (aluminium) prices, and depressed profitability to 
such an extent that it jeopardised the Union industry’s existence – preventing the latter from making the 
investments necessary to continue its transition upmarket and from providing bespoke solutions to specialised 
users. For this injurious picture to occur, massive import volumes are not necessary – even relatively modest 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/27   
imports, or even the existence of a significant amount of low-priced imports (like indisputably in the present case) 
suffice to set a low price ceiling which affects the entire market. The investigation found that these dynamics, so 
characteristic of the capital-intensive aluminium industry, applied to the product under investigation. 
Imports under CN Code 7610 90 90 
(202) As indicated in the provisional Regulation, the precise quantification of the volumes of Chinese imports required 
further analysis. The product under investigation currently falls under 9 CN codes (25), and there were conflicting 
views as to one of them – CN Code 7610 90 90, which also covers products outside the scope of the investigation. 
In particular, views diverged as to which fraction of imports was indeed the product concerned. This code 
accounted for around half of total Chinese import volumes of the product concerned as determined provisionally. 
(203) The import volumes were not a decisive factor for injury in this case, which mainly happened through price 
channels. Even if the Commission were to disregard this code entirely, Chinese penetration would still have 
remained significant, accounting for 5,3 % market share in the investigation period, and have increased by 48 % 
since 2016. Aside from the resulting nominal adjustments in market shares of all other market players, this would 
have entailed no changes to the injury picture. Crucially, if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally 
excluded, weighted average Chinese prices remain at the same abnormally low levels found to cause injury at 
provisional stage. The foregoing is explained in more detail below. 
(204) At any rate, to ascertain such volumes as indicated in recital (223) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission 
pursued three avenues. 
(205) At recital (223) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission outlined the provisional findings concerning the 
provisional methodology and requested interested parties to come forward with any relevant information 
concerning the matter. European Aluminium provided additional clarification of its justification for its 95 % 
estimate. Several interested parties contested this estimate on the basis of their company experience of CN code 
7610 90 90. Certain parties agreed with European Aluminium that the product under investigation was being 
imported under this code. Others disagreed by claiming that either the 95 % estimate was too high or that no 
imports were imported under the code. Some parties made an additional comment that using price as a justification 
was not reliable. However, the corpus of information collected was insufficiently comprehensive and substantiated 
to provide conclusive guidance. 
(206) Following provisional disclosure, the Commission was able to complete its examination of information submitted by 
DG TAXUD and National Customs Authorities. The information from DG TAXUD was a complete list by customs 
declaration, but did not offer a clearer description of the products being imported. 
(207) Furthermore, the information received from 8 Member States (France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, 
Spain, Sweden and the UK) was highly representative, as it covered 84 % of imports of CN Code 7610 90 90 in the 
investigation period, as well as detailed information by customs declaration and the description of the imported 
product as reported by importers on their Single Administrative Document (‘SAD’). Granular analysis on this basis 
led to the conclusions presented below. 
(208) As shown in Table 1, a significant proportion of exports under this CN Code were found to belong to the product 
concerned, on a conservative basis. Indeed, only those transactions were taken whose products descriptions were 
detailed enough to permit a precise determination that the imported product was the product concerned. 
(25) Import volumes from the country concerned were established provisionally as follows. All volumes in CN Codes 7604 21 00, 7604  
29 10, 7604 29 90, 7608 20 81, 7608 20 89 were considered, as all products therein fall under the product concerned; 95 % of 
volumes in CN Code 7610 90 90 were also considered to be the product under investigation for the country concerned only; imports 
of the product concerned under CN Codes ex 7604 10 10, 7604 10 90 and 7608 10 00 were considered to be negligible.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/28                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Table 1 
Import from China under CN code 7610 90 90  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Full CN code volume (tonnes) 
102 090 
131 180 
139 560 
151 891 
Full CN code price per tonne 
2 944 
2 776 
2 764 
2 902 
Product concerned volume (tonnes) 
18 637 
23 948 
25 477 
27 728 
Product concerned price per tonne (26) 
3 050 
3 041 
3 197 
3 308 
Not product concerned volume (tonnes) 
53 728 
69 037 
73 448 
79 937 
Unclear volumes (tonnes) 
29 725 
38 195 
40 635 
44 225 
Source: Eurostat and National Customs (27)   
(209) For a part of the volumes under Table 1, the description was insufficiently clear to determine whether the imports 
volumes linked to the relevant transactions fell under the product concerned. Therefore, on a conservative basis, 
such volumes were considered not to be imports of the product concerned. 
(210) The Commission considered this a reasonable estimate as it was based on information with high representativeness. 
(211) Following final disclosure Airoldi commented that the methodology to identify imports under CN code 7610 90 90 
had not been explained. Paragraphs (118) to (122) of the final disclosure document and its footnote 22 explain the 
approach used. This claim was therefore not accepted. 
(212) During that process, Airoldi requested that the data submitted to the Commission by Member States be sent to them. 
However, exchanges of information between Member States and the Commission are confidential, according to 
Article 19(5) of the basic Regulation. Also, bearing in mind that the data relates to individual customs declarations, 
and contains very sensitive price data, it is clearly business sensitive. This request was, therefore, rejected. 
(213) While the Chinese market share was revised downwards as a result, imports remained significant and the same trend 
of growth as at provisional stage was observed. 
(214) Airoldi commented following final disclosure on the volume of imports established under CN code 7610 90 90 as 
the product concerned. Airoldi stated that the methodology is not representative as it involves the customs 
authorities of only 8 Member States. However, bearing in mind that these Member States account for more than 
83 % of imports, the methodology is representative and therefore this argument is rejected. 
(215) Airoldi also reiterated its argument that imports of the product concerned under code CN 7610 90 90 should be 
zero and referred to the existence of numerous BTIs. The Commission could not accept this argument because the 
existence of BTIs clearly does not preclude that other products, including the product concerned, could fall under 
this code. The Commission’s analysis of this code using customs authority data has proven this to be the case. 
(26) The prices of the product concerned for the investigation period were obtained from National Customs data. These prices were 14 % 
higher than the price for the 5 CN codes. This difference was used to set the price for the years 2016 to 2018.
(27) Data based on imports reported by 8 Member States representing 84 % of imports during the investigation period. Volumes 
extrapolated to imports for all Member States.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/29   
(216) Airoldi further indicated that should imports under CN code 7610 90 90 be excluded from the investigation, the 
investigation should be terminated with no imposition of duties. However, as explained at recital (219), even if 
these import volumes were excluded they would remain at significant levels. The claim can thus not be accepted. 
Volume, market share and price of the imports from the country concerned 
(217) Accordingly, and on the basis described above, imports from the country concerned developed as follows: 
Table 2 
Import volume (tonnes) and market share  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Imports under 8 CN codes (28) 
110 255 
127 616 
149 232 
164 641 
Total volume of imports from China 
128 631 
151 229 
174 353 
191 981 
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
118 
136 
149 
Market share of China (%) 
4,4 
4,8 
5,4 
6,2 
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
110 
123 
141 
Source: Eurostat (see also Table 1 and Table 4 on consumption)   
(218) Also on the basis of the adjusted import volumes, significant levels of imports in both relative and absolute terms, 
reaching 6,2 % of market share in the investigation period, can be observed. In absolute figures, imports from the 
country concerned increased by 49 % during the period considered. In parallel, the total market share of the 
dumped imports increased by 41 % during the period considered. 
(219) As noted in recital (203), even if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, 
import volumes would remain significant, accounting for 5,3 % market share in the investigation period, and 
increasing by 48 % since 2016. 
(220) An importer claimed that the level of market share increase of the Chinese imports did not justify anti-dumping 
duties as mentioned in the provisional Regulation. The threshold to impose measures in terms of the market share 
in the present case significantly exceeded throughout the period considered the 1 % threshold of Article 5(7) of the 
basic Regulation and cannot be considered ‘negligible’ under Article 9(3). In addition, the Chinese market share 
increased by 41 % during the period considered. Given the significant nature of imports in absolute and relative 
terms as well as the absolute and relative trends, the considerations under recital (201) and the price considerations 
in Table 3 below, this claim was rejected. 
Table 3 
Import prices (EUR/tonne)  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Prices under 8 CN codes (29) 
2 684 
2 676 
2 813 
2 911 
Weighted average prices of imports 
from the China 
2 736 
2 733 
2 869 
2 967 
(28) The 8 CN codes are: ex 7604 10 10, ex 7604 10 90, 7604 21 00, 7604 29 10, 7604 29 90, ex 7608 10 00, 7608 20 81 and 
7608 20 89.
(29) The 8 CN codes are: ex 7604 10 10, ex 7604 10 90, 7604 21 00, 7604 29 10, 7604 29 90, ex 7608 10 00, 7608 20 81 and 
7608 20 89.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/30                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
100 
105 
108 
Source: Eurostat and National Customs Authorities   
(221) The adjusted prices demonstrate similar level and trends as in the provisional Regulation, confirming the 
determination made therein. 
(222) As noted in (203) above, if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, average 
import prices would be lower and would follow a similar trend over the period considered. 
(223) As explained at recital (230) of the provisional Regulation these prices should be seen in the light of increases in raw 
material costs of 10 % and they were made in a period where the market was demanding more value added and 
bespoke products. 
(224) The undercutting margins established at recital (232) of the provisional Regulation (over 25 %) were confirmed. 
Certain interested parties commented that their imports from the country concerned did not undercut at over 25 %. 
In fact, Haomei Group stated that their products could become uncompetitive on the Union market depending on 
the fluctuation of exchange rates. However, the Commission’s undercutting calculations covered the entire sample 
of exporting producers using a detailed type by type and transaction by transaction methodology for the 
investigation period. Furthermore, the detailed calculations, including their methodology, were disclosed to the 
exporting producers including Haomei Group. The Commission confirmed that the methodology used to calculate 
undercutting gave both accurate and representative results. 
(225) In the absence of any further comments with respect to imports from the country concerned, the remaining 
conclusions set out in recitals (217) to (234) of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 
4.4. Union consumption 
(226) Union consumption figures were revised downwards as a consequence of the revision to import volumes from the 
country concerned explained in recitals (202) to (213). On this basis, the Union free market consumption 
developed as follows: 
Table 4 
Union consumption (tonnes)  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Total Union consumption 
2 991 288 
3 204 315 
3 290 561 
3 159 475 
Index 
100 
107 
110 
106 
Captive market 
61 338 
60 455 
60 143 
56 640 
Index 
100 
99 
98 
92 
Free market consumption 
2 929 950 
3 143 860 
3 230 418 
3 102 835 
Index 
100 
107 
110 
106 
Source: European Aluminium and Eurostat (30)   
(227) During the period considered, the Union free market consumption increased by 6 %. The increase was mainly due to 
an increase of demand in the major downstream industries. 
(30) The Eurostat data were extracted in November 2020 and therefore contain small differences to the data presented in the provisional 
Regulation.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/31   
(228) As noted in recital (203), even if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, 
consumption would have been at very similar levels and would also increase by 6 %. In the absence of further 
comments with respect to the Union consumption the conclusion set out in recital (216) of the provisional 
Regulation is confirmed. 
4.5. Economic situation of the Union industry on the basis of EU-28 
4.5.1. Macroeconomic and microeconomic indicators 
(229) The market share of free market sales of the Union industry developed as follows as a result of the revision to 
imports from the country concerned mentioned above, and the revised consumption figures stated in Table 4. 
Table 5 
Market share  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
Period 
Market share of free market sales (%) 
87,6 
85,6 
85,3 
84,4 
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
98 
97 
96 
Source: European Aluminium and Eurostat   
(230) It should be noted that, although the market share of the Union industry was reassessed at a slightly higher level in 
the period considered after the revision on import volumes from the country concerned, the market shares still 
decreased by 3,2 percentage points or 4 %. 
(231) As noted in recital (203), even if the volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, 
the market share of the Union industry would have been at very similar levels and would decrease by 3 %. 
(232) Airoldi commented that the source for Tables 4 and 5 quotes both European Aluminium and Eurostat. Airoldi 
queried whether new data had been supplied by European Aluminium. However, these Tables were necessary to 
record the revised figures for consumption and market shares (202) to (215) due to the revision to imports from 
China. No new data was supplied by European Aluminium. The importer Airoldi made a claim concerning Table 7 
(Sales prices in the Union) of the provisional Regulation. The importer alleged that the London Metal Exchange 
(‘LME’), because of its ownership in Hong Kong, was not a reliable reference for aluminium prices and that, 
therefore, the data presented in the provisional Regulation at Table 7 was not appropriate. However, the LME was 
used by all the sampled Union producers as a reference in their contracts, and it is widely quoted in trade 
publications relating to aluminium. The investigation confirmed it is a reliable source for aluminium prices in the 
Union. Furthermore, this importer did not substantiate how the ownership of the LME would make it an unreliable 
source for the purpose used in Table 7 of the provisional Regulation. This claim was, therefore, rejected. 
(233) The same importer made another claim concerning increases in cost in the same table. These cost increases are the 
actual cost increases reported by the Union producers and checked during the RCC. The claim alleged that the 
Commission did not properly explain the reasons for such increases. However, the Commission’s analysis, at recital 
(232) of the provisional Regulation, offered the two major reasons for the increases in cost. One concerned the 
increased costs associated with market demands for more value added products. The second reason involved 
increases in aluminium billets which form the main raw material for production of the product under investigation. 
Such findings were based on the evidence provided during the investigation by the Union producers, verified during 
the RCCs and cross-checked with the information provided by European Aluminium. Thus, the Commission rejected 
the claim that such increases were not explained. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/32                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(234) The same importer also made a claim concerning Table 9 of the provisional Regulation concerning inventories. The 
claim challenged the Commission’s analysis that the rise in stocks of 26 % did not represent an important injury 
indicator. However, the Commission’s analysis was in the light that stocks as a percentage of production were low 
as the industry operates primarily on a production to order basis. Also a rise in stocks is often a sign that goods, 
which were not produced to order, but for the distribution market, could not be sold. This indicated an injurious 
situation. Also, when compared to the level of production, the stocks remained comparably low throughout the 
period considered, accounting for roughly 2 weeks of production. Therefore, the Commission maintained its 
provisional conclusion and rejected the claim. 
(235) The same importer also made claims concerning Table 10 of the provisional Regulation concerning profitability. 
One claim was that a certain Union producer did not suffer big falls in profitability, and a second stated that Union 
producers of hard alloy product types were more profitable than soft alloy producers. However, the Commission 
reiterates that profitability, like all injury indicators, should be examined using the Union industry as a whole, or a 
representative sample as is the case and not individual companies or product types. Furthermore, the source quoted 
for the profitability of the named producer made it clear that it related to the entire company not the product under 
investigation. Therefore, the Commission rejected these claims. 
(236) Following final disclosure Airoldi and other importers repeated their arguments relating to profitability of the Union 
industry, which had already been addressed in the preceding recital. These parties had extended their own research 
into the profitability of companies which produce extrusions in the Union. The parties commented that levels of 
profitability varied. Irrespective of the admissibility of such information given the late stage in which it was 
provided, the fact that it applied only to one Member State, and that it was not substantiated, on average, the 
evidence provided suggested a low level of profitability for the Union industry companies covered by the research, 
in line with the outcomes of the aforementioned recitals. 
(237) The same importer made another claim concerning Table 10 of the provisional Regulation concerning investment. 
The claim alleged that the Commission did not properly explain the reasons for increases in investment. The 
Commission’s analysis related to the investments made by the sampled Union producers, which demonstrated an 
increase of 72 % in 2019 as compared to 2016. Such data was discussed and checked with the sampled producers 
during the RCCs. Furthermore, the Commission explained that increases in investment were required to increase 
efficiency and provide greater customer focus in the light of the market’s demand for more value added solutions. 
At recital (332) to (340) of the provisional Regulation the Commission made further remarks to demonstrate the 
importance of high levels of investment to the future of the Union industry. Therefore, the Commission rejected the 
claim that investments were not adequately explained. 
(238) The same importer also claimed that the Commission accepted Union industry data at face value. As already 
explained at recitals (25) and (26) of the provisional Regulation, just like the information provided by the sampled 
exporting producers, the questionnaire responses of all four sampled Union producers were cross-checked remotely 
against the source company documentation and, where possible, against publically available sources. Therefore, this 
claim was rejected. 
(239) Following final disclosure, Airoldi disagreed with the Commission’s comments in the previous two recitals 
concerning the source and checking of data received. In particular, Airoldi contested that the data relied upon 
during the anti-dumping investigation at issue were appropriate in that they were drawn from company sources 
and not publicly available sources. With respect to this, the Commission confirms that, in line with its practice of 
cross-checking sensitive company data in the framework of an investigation, publicly available sources are also used 
where appropriate. 
(240) Moreover, concerning investments, Airoldi claims that the Commission’s finding regarding the fact that investments 
are required to increase efficiency and provide greater customer focus is generic and does not seem to be connected 
with the context of the anti-dumping investigation at issue. With respect to this point, the Commission reiterates the 
fact that the affirmation appropriately describes the situation of the industry producing the product under 
investigation. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/33   
(241) Following final disclosure, concerning the recital (234), Airoldi also affirmed that it would be wrong to correlate the 
presence of an adequate level of stocks with a finding of injury. The same importer also claimed that a level of 26 % 
of stocks is absolutely normal in the aluminium extrusion market. With respect to this argument, it should be firstly 
recalled that the consideration of stocks as an injury indicator is a legal requirement from the basic Regulation. 
Moreover, it was the same importer that at provisional stage claimed that the this indicator would be relevant. With 
respect to this point, the Commission maintains its preliminary conclusion that, as described in recital (264) of the 
provisional Regulation, inventories have a lesser importance in the injury analysis because of the production being 
principally made on an order basis. As described in recital (234), if they would be considered, they would point 
towards an injurious scenario. 
(242) The same importer also claimed that the loss of market share of the Union industry described at Table 5 of the 
provisional Regulation could be quickly recovered even without imposition of anti-dumping measures. This claim 
was not further substantiated. No convincing reasons were given why the continuous decrease experienced 
throughout the period considered should be reversed without imposition of anti-dumping duties, in particular 
given the high undercutting margins of Chinese exports found of over 25 %, as explained in recital (232) of the 
provisional Regulation and confirmed by recital (224). Therefore, this claim was rejected. 
(243) The same importer made further comments relating to the issue discussed at recital (316) of the provisional 
Regulation. The importer repeated its allegation that the Union industry was abusing its allegedly dominant 
position on the market. European Aluminium commented that such allegations were frivolous. The allegations are 
primarily within the competence of DG COMP, which confirmed, following provisional disclosure, that no cases of 
the nature claimed exist. However, the Commission would like to point out that the Union industry is comprised of 
over 200 producers. The Commission maintains its view that the importer has not provided any analysis or evidence 
to support these allegations, or to explain their relevance within the context of the basic Regulation. These claims 
were, therefore, rejected and the conclusions in Sections 4.6 and 4.7 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 
(244) Following the final disclosure, Airoldi submitted a document described as a newspaper article showing that a 
representative from a Union producer had commented on competition issues on the Union market. In addition 
other importers and Haomei Group commented that the measures would strengthen certain Union producer’s 
dominant position on the Union market. With regard to this alleged newspaper article, it should firstly be stressed 
that the document supplied is in reality a company promotional material (being presented as ‘promotional 
information’). Moreover, the Union producer in question did not comment on competition issues in general but 
rather on the very special products that it produces, according its own promotional material. Given the very limited 
scope of the affirmation and the type of publication, the Commission therefore considers that neither the alleged 
newspaper article nor the unsubstantiated claim of the importers and Haomei Group should affect its conclusions 
reached in the previous recital. 
(245) Also following final disclosure, Haomei Group commented on the injury suffered by the Union industry using their 
own research into the profitability of four Union producers. Haomei Group commented that their research 
demonstrated that the Union industry was more profitable than was portrayed by the Commission in Table 10 of 
the provisional Regulation. However, the data provided in Haomei Group’s submission related to the total 
profitability of the companies selected by them and therefore does not relate to the product under investigation. 
Furthermore, the Commission’s sample was selected in accordance with Article 17 of the basic Regulation in 
February 2020. No comments were received by Haomei Group at that stage. Bearing in mind the requirements of 
Article 17 and the fact that Haomei Group’s data does not relate solely to the product under investigation, the 
Commission rejects this claim. 
4.6. Claims on the methodology for assessing material injury 
(246) An importer and the GOC commented on the methodology used by the Commission to assess material injury. The 
claim made argued that the injury analysis was flawed because many indicators show a positive development and it 
was claimed that the Commission relied on only certain indicators to support its conclusion. It was also claimed that 
several injury factors were evidence of no injury to the Union industry because the trends were not negative. 
However, these claims were based on assessing indicators on an individual basis, not taking the context – such as 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/34                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
increasing demand and increasing costs – into account. The claims were rejected as the provisional conclusion on 
injury was based on an assessment of all indicators and no one of those indicators necessarily gave decisive 
guidance. As already described in recitals (271) to (274) of the provisional Regulation, confirmed herein, while 
certain indicators did indeed show a positive development it was adequately substantiated how the finding of 
material injury was reached taking into account all injury indicators. 
(247) Airoldi and O. Wilms claimed, following final disclosure, that the Commission had changed its findings on injury in 
order to reflect the reduction of imports under code CN 7610 90 90 as described below. It was claimed that injury at 
the provisional stage was mainly justified by volume indicators and that at the final disclosure this had changed so 
that injury was mainly felt in respect of price indicators. However recitals (271) to (274) of the provisional 
Regulation concentrate on the price injury suffered by the Union industry. Furthermore, recital (280) of the 
provisional Regulation explained how material injury had occurred when some parties considered Chinese import 
quantities and market share to be limited. The provisional Regulation indicated that the dimension of imports from 
China would be further investigated – this is part and parcel of any trade defence investigation, which refines its 
conclusions as it advances, allowing for a sound appreciation of the facts definitively established. Having completed 
this process, its conclusions confirm the outcomes highlighted in the provisional Regulation. The Commission can 
thus not accept the claim that it changed its approach. 
(248) Also following final disclosure O. Wilms commented on developments in respect of volumes sold on the Union 
market by Chinese, Turkish and Union producers. As the Union industry had increased sales, O. Wilms contested 
the fact that the Union industry had suffered injury. A similar argument was also raised by Haomei Group. 
However, as explained at section 4.7, the finding of material injury derives mainly from price suppression and its 
impact on the performance indicators. Furthermore, despite the modest increase in sales volume on the Union 
market, the Union industry lost market share over the period considered. 
(249) Also following final disclosure Haomei Group contested the injury suffered by the Union industry on the grounds 
that the price comparisons performed by the Commission were inappropriate. In particular, Haomei Group claimed 
in its submission that Haomei Group never harmed the Union aluminium industry as the prices of the two exporters 
were aligned when not superior to the ones of the European competitors. This affirmation cannot be accepted. The 
investigation has shown that when performing a comparison on a product type basis, the prices of these exporters 
were undercutting the Union industry ones by a significant margin, therefore resulting not only aligned but sensibly 
lower. Haomei Group also suggested using importer prices as a source for the price comparisons. However, as 
mentioned at recital (234) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission based its price comparisons on an 
objective basis using a detailed methodology and calculations which were disclosed to Haomei Group. This 
methodology compared products on a type for type basis using several objective criteria and was therefore the most 
representative method available to the Commission. The Commission therefore rejects the claim that this 
comparison was inappropriate and also the claim that this methodology distorted the injury assessment. 
4.7. Conclusion on injury 
(250) The import figures for the country concerned were revised and their impact on consumption and market shares and 
the conclusion on injury was reassessed at the definitive stage. 
(251) The trend in import volumes showed an increase of 49 %. The market share of these imports increased by 41 % over 
the period considered. The market share of the Union industry also showed a significant decrease (– 4 %). 
(252) It should be pointed out that the key indicators, which demonstrate the injury in this investigation would remain 
injurious even if Chinese imports would be assessed excluding CN Code 7610 90 90. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/35   
(253) Taking the revised findings into account together with the other unchanged injury indicators detailed in the 
provisional Regulation, it was definitively confirmed that the Union industry suffered material injury in the 
investigation period. This situation was primarily caused by injurious prices which have significantly undercut those 
of the Union industry, suppressed prices on the Union market and prevented sufficient price increases. This impact 
was exacerbated by the fact that significant Chinese imports have increased in absolute terms and gained market 
share substantially over the period considered. The Union industry is in the process of adapting to changes in the 
Union market where increasing investments are vital to ensure its long term survival. However, the low profitability, 
which is the result of the suppressed market prices, is clearly too low to generate the funding of such investments. 
This jeopardises the long term future of the industry which employs around 40 000 direct employees and many 
more indirectly in the aluminium supply chain. 
(254) On the basis of the above and in the absence of any other comments on the issue, the conclusion of the situation of 
the Union industry as described in recitals (271) to (274) of the provisional Regulation was confirmed. 
5. INJURY BASED ON EU-27 DATA 
5.1. General 
(255) Reference is made is made to recital (35). 
5.2. Definition of the Union industry and Union production 
(256) Regarding the definition of the Union industry, the fact that an association representing Union producers also 
contains members from non-EU countries does not impinge upon the locus standi of such an association to 
represent Union producers nor the representativeness thereof in line with Article 4 of the basic Regulation. It is also 
recalled that Union producers have issued specific powers of attorney to European Aluminium to represent their 
interests in the current proceeding. For this reason, claims made by Airoldi after additional final disclosure 
questioning the standing of Union industry, which has been further rebutted by European Aluminium by stating 
that its capacity to represent the Union industry has been on file since the beginning of the investigation, cannot be 
accepted. 
(257) The information on file further indicates that production of the like product in the UK is lower than 3 % of the 
EU-28 total. Complainants, which do not produce in the UK, thus continue to meet the criteria of Article 5(4) of 
the basic Regulation. 
(258) Excluding producers in the UK, the like product was manufactured by around 200 producers in the Union during the 
investigation period. They constitute the ‘Union industry’ within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. 
5.3. Imports from the country concerned under CN Code 7610 90 90 
(259) Excluding imports into the UK, the figures for CN Code 7610 90 90 are as follows. 
Table 1bis 
Import from China under CN code 7610 90 90 – EU-27 basis  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Full CN code volume (tonnes) 
93 325 
124 799 
131 545 
142 371 
Full CN code price per tonne 
2 912 
2 739 
2 722 
2 867 
Product concerned volume (tonnes) 
15 534 
20 773 
21 896 
23 697 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/36                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Product concerned price per tonne (31) 
3 204 
3 203 
3 359 
3 475 
Not product concerned volume (tonnes) 
52 038 
69 588 
73 349 
79 386 
Unclear volumes (tonnes) 
25 753 
34 439 
36 300 
39 288 
Source: Eurostat and National Customs (32)   
(260) Following the additional final disclosure Airoldi repeated its claim that the methodology for obtaining imports data 
from the national customs authorities for CN code 7610 90 90 and adding it to the other imports from China was 
not explained. European Aluminium responded that this methodology was very clear to them. Following the 
additional final disclosure, Haomei Group requested that the data used by the Commission in establishing the 
Chinese imports would be submitted to them. With regards to Eurostat data, these figures are public. With regards 
to the figures provided to the Commission by customs authorities of Member States, it should be recalled that 
exchanges of information between Member States and the Commission are confidential, according to Article 19(5) 
of the basic Regulation. As concerns the explanation of the approach used, the Commission recalls the explanation 
of its approach at recitals (203) to (219) and the relevant footnotes, which apply mutatis mutandis to the EU-27 
analysis. 
(261) Airoldi associated itself with Haomei Group’s aforementioned submission and reiterated its own claim. It is recalled 
that a submission in reaction to another party’s submission cannot be used to propose new elements or requests. At 
any rate, the substantive responses in the previous recital apply. It is further recalled that the Commission has 
explained repeatedly to the company how imports were calculated and verified, and reiterates that its claims are 
unfounded not least as no evidence has been presented to rebut the conclusions of the Commission’s analysis. 
5.4. Volume, market share and price of the imports from the country concerned 
(262) Accordingly, and on the basis described above, imports from the country concerned developed as follows: 
Table 2bis 
Import volume (tonnes) and market share – EU-27 basis  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Imports under 8 CN codes (33) 
82 001 
87 403 
108 739 
128 853 
Total volume of imports from China 
97 535 
108 176 
130 635 
152 551 
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
111 
134 
156 
Market share of China (%) 
3,4 
3,5 
4,1 
5,0 
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
104 
122 
148 
Source: Eurostat (see also Table 1 and Table 4 on consumption)   
(31) The prices of the product concerned for the investigation period were obtained from National Customs data. These prices were 11 % 
higher than the price for the 5 CN codes. This difference was used to set the price for the years 2016 to 2018.
(32) Data based on imports reported by 7 Member States representing 83 % of imports during the investigation period. Volumes 
extrapolated to imports for all Member States.
(33) The 8 CN codes are: ex 7604 10 10, ex 7604 10 90, 7604 21 00, 7604 29 10, 7604 29 90, ex 7608 10 00, 7608 20 81 and 
7608 20 89.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/37   
(263) Also on the basis of the adjusted import volumes, significant levels of imports in both relative and absolute terms, 
reaching 5 % of market share in the investigation period, can be observed. In absolute figures, imports from the 
country concerned increased by 56 % during the period considered. In parallel, the total market share of the 
dumped imports increased by 48 % during the period considered. 
(264) Even if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, import volumes would remain 
significant, accounting for 4,2 % market share in the investigation period, and increasing by 57 % since 2016. 
Table 3bis 
Import prices (EUR/tonne) – EU-27 basis  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Prices under 8 CN codes (34) 
2 987 
3 110 
3 127 
3 142 
Weighted average prices of imports 
from China 
3 038 
3 173 
3 183 
3 193 
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
104 
105 
105 
Source: Eurostat and National Customs Authorities   
(265) The adjusted prices demonstrate similar price trends as previously disclosed, confirming the same conclusions. 
(266) If volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, average import prices would be 
lower and would follow a similar trend over the period considered. 
(267) Following the methodology previously disclosed, the undercutting margins excluding imports to the UK amount to 
23,6 %, confirming the previously disclosed conclusions. 
(268) Following the additional final disclosure Airoldi commented that importers, including Airoldi, have not imported 
extruded products under code CN 7610 90 90 and that the Commission has not asked importers for clarification 
on this code. While this comment was late and disregards the Commission’s definitive assessment on the calculation 
of imports under this code, the Commission requested cooperation from all parties at recital (223) of the provisional 
Regulation. Therefore, these claims were rejected. 
(269) Following the additional final disclosure, Airoldi commented that the average prices of Chinese imports under CN 
code 7610 90 90 increased as a result of the reassessment of the case on a EU-27 basis. The Commission confirmed 
that this is the result of the exclusion of UK sales from the figures. 
(270) Following the additional final disclosure, Haomei Group commented that certain aspects of the methodology for 
injury calculations including the source of data were not clear to them. The Commission confirms that the 
methodology for the injury calculations was disclosed to Haomei Group at the provisional and definitive stages of 
the investigation. At the additional final disclosure stage it was explained that the same methodology for the injury 
calculations had been applied except that UK data had been removed. The Commission therefore considered that its 
clear methodology has been fully explained. In addition, such points should have been raised at the provisional stage 
rather than following the additional final disclosure. 
5.5. Union consumption 
(271) Union consumption figures were revised as a consequence of the revision to import volumes from the country 
concerned explained above and revised import volumes from other third countries into the EU-27. On this basis, 
the Union free market consumption developed as follows: 
(34) Same as above.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/38                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Table 4bis 
Union consumption (tonnes) (*) – EU-27 basis  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
period 
Total Union consumption 
2 965 810 
3 167 207 
3 251 443 
3 123 439 
Index 
100 
107 
110 
105 
Captive market 
61 338 
60 455 
60 143 
56 640 
Index 
100 
99 
98 
92 
Free market consumption 
2 904 472 
3 106 752 
3 191 300 
3 066 799 
Index 
100 
107 
110 
106 
(*) given the low impact of sales to the UK – as described below – the Union consumption is partially based on figures from EU-28, 
which are considered representative for EU-27.
Source: European Aluminium and Eurostat   
(272) During the period considered, the Union free market consumption increased by 6 %. 
(273) Even if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, consumption would have been 
at very similar levels and would also increase, confirming the previously disclosed conclusions. 
(274) After the additional final disclosure, Airoldi claimed that the Commission did not explain the basis for the 
determination of the captive market. With respect to this claim, the Commission’s findings relating to the captive 
market were already shown in the provisional findings (recital (248) of the provisional Regulation). This comment 
is moreover well out of time as it should have been raised within the deadline for comments on the provisional 
findings. The claim is rejected. 
5.6. Economic situation of the Union industry 
5.6.1. Macroeconomic and microeconomic indicators 
(275) The market share of free market sales of the Union industry developed as follows as a result of the revision to 
imports from the country concerned mentioned above, and the revised consumption figures stated in Table 4. 
Table 5bis 
Market share (*) – EU-27 basis  
2016 
2017 
2018 
Investigation 
Period 
Union industry share of free market sales 
(%) 
88,4 
86,6 
86,4 
85,4 
Index (2016 = 100) 
100 
98 
98 
97 
(*) given the low impact of sales to the UK – as described below – the market share of the Union industry is partially based on 
figures from EU-28, which are considered representative for EU-27.
Source: European Aluminium and Eurostat   
(276) Although the market share of the Union industry was reassessed at a slightly higher level in the period considered, 
the market shares still decreased by 3,0 percentage points. 
(277) Even if the volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, the market share of the 
Union industry would have been at very similar levels and would decrease, confirming the previously disclosed 
conclusions. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/39   
(278) On the basis of the confirmed information provided by Union producers and already on file, sales volumes by the 
Union industry to the UK market were assessed at around 2 % of the total sales in the EU-28. Such a volume could 
not have any material impact on economic indicators of the Union industry. Therefore, all other previously 
disclosed indicators in Section 6 above are also representative for the EU-27 and are confirmed, as are the 
conclusions derived therefrom. 
(279) Following the additional final disclosure Airoldi commented that the Commission should have obtained a new set of 
EU-27 data from the Union industry in order to perform its EU-27 injury analysis, as it had done in another trade 
defence investigation. However, this was not necessary as the information on file already allowed for an EU-27 
analysis, as explained above. This was confirmed by European Aluminium, which replied to Airoldi’s claim by 
pointing out that producers in the UK represented less than 3 % of production, that Union industry business activity 
in the UK was low, and that therefore any impact on injury indicators was minimal. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(280) Following the additional final disclosure Airoldi and Euranimi commented that the Union industry market share, 
being over 85 % in the investigation period was not an injurious indicator. These parties referred to a Judgment of 
the Court of Justice of the European Union of 4 February 2021 in Case C-324/19, Eurocylinder Systems AG which 
they claimed implied that injury could not exist with such a market share. Haomei Group also commented on this 
point, claiming that, according to several Court cases, the market share of 85 % would impede an injury 
determination. However, Case C-324/19 concerned the threat of injury and the assessment of the factors that 
determine it. In this case, it is recalled that the determination of injury relates mainly to price effects, as explained in 
recital (252), a fact that is not altered by the very limited changes in market shares, which in any event dropped by 
3 % for the Union industry over the period considered. This claim was therefore rejected. 
(281) Following the additional final disclosure Airoldi commented that the Union industry production had increased and 
that its share relative to consumption had also increased. Airoldi claimed this demonstrated a lack of injury. The 
arguments in the preceding recital are recalled. In addition, as explained at recital (242) of the provisional 
Regulation although Union production increased by 2 % over the period considered the Union industry lost share 
relative to consumption. This claim was therefore not accepted. 
(282) Following the additional final disclosure Airoldi repeated its claims referenced in recitals (235) and (236) without 
providing any additional evidence, which were thus rejected for the substantive reasons mentioned in the aforesaid 
recitals. 
(283) Following final disclosure Airoldi further commented on the fact that the LME is located outside the Union, and 
should not be used as a source of reference for aluminium prices. The same arguments as in recital (232) apply, and 
the claim is not accepted. 
5.7. Conclusion on injury on an EU-27 basis 
(284) Therefore, on the basis of the information on file on an EU-27 basis the Commission concluded that the Union 
industry suffered material injury within the meaning of Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation. 
6. CAUSATION BASED ON EU-28 
6.1. Effect of dumped imports 
(285) The effect of dumped imports was described in Section 5.1 of the provisional Regulation. Several interested parties 
claimed that the injury could not be attributed to the dumped imports from the country concerned and that other 
factors were attenuating the causal link. Some of the claims were a mere reiteration of the claims already discussed 
in the provisional Regulation without any new elements. The comments not previously raised are analysed below 
together with an assessment of additional data collected after the provisional disclosure, where appropriate. 
(286) As a result of the revision of imports from the country concerned described in recitals (202) to (216), the 
consumption and the market shares of the Union industry and imports from the country concerned were revised. 
The Chinese market share increased from 4,4 % to 6,2 % (instead of 6,9 % to 9,6 % as in Table 2 of the provisional 
Regulation) whilst the Union industry market share on the free market decreased from 87,6 % to 84,4 % (instead of 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/40                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
85,1 % to 81,1 % as in Table 5 of the provisional Regulation). Consequently, these Tables of the provisional 
Regulation were amended accordingly. The impact of such changes had little or no impact in terms of the trends or 
the significant level of imports, as after the revision, inter alia, the import volume from the country concerned 
actually increased 49 % (instead of 48 %), and the trend of its market share increases from 41 % (instead of 39 %). 
Therefore, the revised import and market share figures did not materially affect the causation analysis described at 
recitals (276) to (283) of the provisional Regulation. 
(287) Certain importers claimed that only a minor part of Chinese worldwide exports were sold to the Union market (only 
13 %) and that the Chinese imports were easily absorbed onto the Union market without causing injury. However, 
this comment focused on certain volume issues, and ignored the fact that the most important part of the injury 
suffered by the Union industry was price related, due to the significant price pressure exercised by these low-priced 
imports which undercut the prices of the Union industry by more than 25 %. These importers also claimed that 
Chinese imports grew only at the expense of imports from third countries. This argument is factually incorrect, as 
shown by Table 6 below. In addition, the information in Table 4 clearly demonstrates that the Union industry has 
also suffered volume injury and has lost market share over the period considered to the dumped imports from the 
country concerned. These claims were therefore rejected. 
(288) Following final disclosure Haomei Group contested the injury suffered by the Union industry on the grounds that 
imports from all sources had not increased over the period 2017 to 2020. However, it is recalled that the 
Commission’s assessment of injury is heavily axed on prices. In addition, this investigation has shown that the 
Union industry market share has fallen over the period considered (2016-2019). Over the same period imports 
from China increased both in absolute terms and in respect of market share. Taking these issues into account, and 
the fact that Haomei Group’s assessment of volumes covered all imports, and was not restricted to the period 
considered, the Commission rejects the argument made. 
6.2. Effect of other factors 
6.2.1. Imports from third countries 
(289) Imports from third countries developed as follows over the period considered. 
Table 6 
Imports from third countries   
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Turkey 
Volume tonnes 
77 041 
87 632 
107 392 
110 452 
Index 
100 
114 
139 
143 
Market share % 
2,6 
2,8 
3,3 
3,6 
Index 
100 
106 
126 
135 
Average Price 
3 519 
3 599 
3 569 
3 448 
Index 
100 
102 
101 
98 
Other third countries 
Volume tonnes 
156 278 
213 999 
191 673 
181 402 
Index 
100 
137 
123 
116  
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/41   
Market share (%) 
5,3 
6,8 
5,9 
5,8 
Index 
100 
128 
111 
110 
Average Price 
3 197 
3 126 
3 398 
3 489 
Index 
100 
98 
106 
109 
Total of all countries 
excluding the 
country concerned 
Volume tonnes 
233 319 
301 631 
299 065 
291 854 
Index 
100 
129 
128 
125 
Market share (%) 
8,0 
9,6 
9,3 
9,4 
Index 
100 
120 
116 
118 
Average Price 
3 304 
3 264 
3 459 
3 473 
Index 
100 
99 
105 
105 
Source: Eurostat (35)   
(290) The import volumes of third countries changed slightly due to the aforementioned statistical revisions. The market 
share of these imports was also affected as a result of the revision to imports from the country concerned described 
at the recitals (202) to (213). However, these changes were minor and had even less impact in terms of the trend. The 
third country market share after revision increased from 8,0 % to 9,4 % (instead of 8,0 % to 9,3 % in Table 11 of the 
provisional Regulation). Therefore, such minor changes to the imports and market share figures of third countries 
did not materially affect the causation analysis described at recitals (284) to (288) of the provisional Regulation. 
(291) Carl Prinz commented on recital (286) of the provisional Regulation stating that in their experience of prices 
in 2020, prices from Turkey were not significantly higher compared to the country concerned. However, this 
information related to information subsequent to the investigation period, and no information concerning the 
investigation period was provided. In addition no evidence has been submitted to show that the analysis in recital 
(286) of the provisional Regulation was incorrect. 
(292) Taking into account the revised data shown at Table 6 and after analysing the comments received relating to recitals 
(284) to (287) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission confirms the conclusion of the impact of imports 
from third countries at recital (288) of the provisional Regulation. 
(293) As noted in recital (203), even if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, the 
import volumes from other third countries would not change and there would be only minimal changes to their 
market shares. The conclusion on causation by imports from third countries in the provisional Regulation is 
unaffected and therefore confirmed. 
(294) Following final disclosure, Airoldi commented that the previous recital defied logic. However, it was unclear why 
Airoldi had reached this conclusion. The Commission’s assessment that the impact of imports from third countries 
would continue to be injurious if imports under the CN code in question were not taken into account is valid. This 
is because the absolute volume of imports from third countries would be unaffected and their market share would 
change only minimally. Therefore the Commission confirms its analysis. 
(35) The Eurostat data were extracted in November 2020 and therefore contain small differences to the data presented in the provisional 
Regulation.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/42                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
6.2.2. Impact of consumption 
(295) The revised figures relating to consumption at recitals (226) to (228) had no material impact on the conclusion 
reached at recital (294) of the provisional Regulation. As noted in recital (203), even if the volumes under CN Code 
7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, consumption on the free market would have been at very 
similar levels and would increase by 6 %. The conclusion in recital (294) of the provisional Regulation is therefore 
confirmed. In its comments after final disclosure, Airoldi claimed that the reasoning of this recital ‘defies any logic’ 
as it relies in an unjustified manner upon the importance in quantitative terms of imports of products classifiable in 
such a code. With respect to this comment, the Commission notes that the reasoning above highlights (to the 
contrary) that even not relying on the products imported under this code (which is not the appropriate method as 
this code also includes a meaningful proportion of product concerned), the injury findings would not be affected. 
6.2.3. Impact of costs in the Union 
(296) Airoldi also made a claim that the high investment costs reported at Table 10 of the provisional Regulation caused 
injury to the Union industry. The Commission’s conclusion on investments was that they were required at 
increasing levels to stay relevant on the market. The investments were required to increase efficiency and provide 
greater customer focus in the light of the market’s demand for more value added solutions. Recitals (332) to (340) 
of the provisional Regulation discussed how important high levels of investment are to the future of the Union 
industry. The Commission rejected the claim as misguided and unsubstantiated. 
(297) The GOC cited a Reuters report of January 2014 that labour and environmental laws in the Union as well as high 
energy costs make the production of raw metals, like aluminium in the Union almost unprofitable. However, this 
claim related to the production of aluminium as a raw material. The claim could not be accepted, bearing in mind 
that this report does not relate to the Union industry which is a downstream industry, and it does not take into 
account developments in the Union aluminium industry in the period considered. 
6.2.4. Impact of sales to distributors 
(298) Airoldi claimed that the sales performance of the Union industry was affected by a business decision to stop selling 
to distributors. However, it was clear from the data collected in the questionnaire responses of the sampled Union 
industry that they had not stopped sales to distributors in general. In fact, the Commission found that Union sales 
to distributors had decreased due to price pressure by dumped Chinese imports. Furthermore, the questionnaire 
reply of Airoldi, who acts as an importer and a distributor, showed that they purchased significant quantities from 
the Union industry. This claim was, therefore, rejected. 
6.3. Conclusion on causation 
(299) The revision of import volumes from the country concerned meant that the conclusion on causation had to be 
reassessed at the definitive stage of the investigation. The revised import volumes and market shares on the Union 
market described above did not have any material impact on the causation analysis and an even smaller impact 
when examining the trends. The same applies should CN Code 7610 90 90 be excluded altogether. 
(300) At recitals (280) to (282) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission explained how Chinese imports, having a 
much smaller market share than the Union industry, not only had penetrated the Union market, increasing their 
market share steadily to cause volume injury but, more seriously, had suppressed market prices and caused the 
Union industry to make reduced and inadequate profit levels throughout the period considered. These recitals 
remain valid at the levels of Chinese imports in both absolute and relative terms shown in Table 2 above, and, 
arguendo, if CN Code 7610 90 90 were excluded altogether. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/43   
(301) Furthermore, none of the comments made by interested parties altered the assessment of the factors made at the 
provisional stage and no valid comments were made following the imposition of provisional measures which could 
explain the material injury to the Union industry established in this investigation. 
(302) On the basis of the above and in the absence of any other comments, the Commission concluded that none of the 
other factors examined at provisional stage as well as at definitive stage was capable of having any relevant impact 
on the injurious situation of the Union industry. Thus, none of the factors, analysed either individually or 
collectively, attenuated the causal link between the dumped imports and the injury suffered by the Union industry 
to the effect that such link would no longer be genuine and substantial, confirming the conclusion in recitals (302) 
and (303) of the provisional Regulation. 
7. CAUSATION BASED ON EU-27 
7.1. Effect of dumped imports 
(303) As a result of the aforementioned revisions, the consumption and the market shares of the Union industry and 
imports from the country concerned were revised. The Chinese market share increased from 3,4 to 5 % whilst the 
Union industry’s market share on the free market decreased from 88,4 % to 85,4 % during the period considered. 
The changes from EU-28 to EU-27 analysis had little or no impact in terms of the trends or the significant level of 
imports, as after the revision, inter alia, the import volume from the country concerned actually increased by 56 %, 
and the trend of its market share increased by 48 %. Therefore, the revised import and market share figures did not 
materially affect the attribution analysis previously disclosed. 
7.2. Effect of other factors 
7.2.1. Imports from third countries 
(304) Imports from third countries developed as follows over the period considered. 
Table 6bis 
Imports from third countries to EU-27   
2016 
2017 
2018 
IP 
Turkey 
Volume tonnes 
73 187 
84 678 
103 888 
106 702 
Index 
100 
116 
142 
146 
Market share (%) 
2,5 
2,7 
3,3 
3,5 
Index 
100 
108 
129 
138 
Average Price 
3 475 
3 595 
3 569 
3 439 
Index 
100 
103 
103 
99 
Other third countries 
Volume tonnes 
165 749 
222 898 
199 778 
188 546 
Index 
100 
134 
121 
114 
Market share (%) 
5,7 % 
7,2 % 
6,3 % 
6,1 % 
Index 
100 
126 
110 
108 
Average Price 
3 438 
3 353 
3 684 
3 760 
Index 
100 
98 
107 
109 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/44                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Total of all countries 
excluding the 
country concerned 
Volume tonnes 
238 937 
307 576 
303 666 
295 248 
Index 
100 
129 
127 
124 
Market share (%) 
8,2 
9,9 
9,5 
9,6 
Index 
100 
120 
116 
117 
Average Price 
3 449 
3 420 
3 644 
3 644 
Index 
100 
99 
106 
106 
Source: Eurostat   
(305) The import volumes from third countries changed slightly due to the aforementioned revisions. The market share of 
these imports was also affected as a result. However, these changes were minor and had even less impact in terms of 
the trend. The third country market share after revision increased from 8.,2 to 9,6 %.These minor changes do not 
materially affect the causation analysis as previously disclosed. 
(306) Even if volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, the import volumes from other 
third countries would not change and there would be only minimal changes to their market shares. The conclusion 
on causation by imports from third countries is unaffected and therefore confirmed. 
(307) Following the additional final disclosure Haomei Group commented that the market share of imports from China 
had simply increased to the detriment of imports from third countries, rather than having an impact on Union 
industry market share. However, this claim is factually incorrect, and could not be accepted, bearing in mind that 
the Union industry market share has fallen by 3 % as shown in Table 5bis. 
(308) Following the additional final disclosure Haomei Group and Airoldi commented that the Chinese market share and 
import volumes had reduced on an EU-27 basis to such an extent that the situation could not have been injurious 
to the Union industry, and that, conversely, the market share of the Union industry remained above 85 % in the IP. 
Reference is made to recitals (201) and (280) and to Table 5bis above. Moreover, the fact that, the import volumes 
in absolute terms are lower in this final determination than estimated in the complaint and at provisional stage, 
reflects the very nature of trade defence investigations, which as they advance refine their analysis as information 
from parties is progressively gathered, processed and verified. Indeed, the foregoing does not have any impact on 
the rate of growth of the imports, which remains significant. Indeed, it should be recalled that the market share of 
the Chinese imports had increased by 48 % over the period considered and the small reduction in Chinese market 
share does not impact materially on the injury found, not least in view of the price injury elements mentioned at 
recital (253). This claim was therefore rejected. 
(309) Also following the additional final disclosure Haomei Group commented, using data extracted from the 
Consolidated Hydro Group Annual Reports, that the market share of the Hydro Group had increased. However, the 
market share of Union producers fell over the period considered as shown in Table 5bis above. The market share of 
individual Union producers or groups of producers is not a relevant issue to this causation analysis. This point was 
therefore rejected. 
7.2.2. Impact of consumption 
(310) The revised figures relating to consumption had no material impact on the conclusion previously disclosed. Even if 
the volumes under CN Code 7610 90 90 were totally excluded from the analysis, consumption on the free market 
would have been at very similar levels and would increase. The conclusions previously disclosed are therefore 
confirmed. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/45   
7.3. Conclusion on causation 
(311) All other aspects previously disclosed being equally applicable in the EU-27 context, the conclusions on causation as 
previously disclosed are confirmed. 
8. UNION INTEREST BASED ON EU-28 
(312) The additional remote cross-checks mentioned in recital (13) provided a useful opportunity to further examine the 
relevant Union interest issues. 
8.1. Interest of the Union industry and suppliers 
(313) Four suppliers of aluminium in the Union showed their support to the imposition of the measures. These comments 
were supported by European Aluminium, which pointed out that the almost 30 % of the output of these suppliers 
was sold to the Union industry for use in the manufacture of the product under investigation. It was, therefore, 
evident that the outcome of the investigation will have a positive impact also on the entire aluminium value chain 
within the Union. 
(314) In addition to that, according to an OECD study (36), aluminium producers in the Union use more recycled raw 
materials and more sustainable production methods than Chinese ones. In particular, while Europe is one of the 
leaders of recycling of aluminium, with a high share of recycled material, China relies mainly on the production of 
primary aluminium, which is a very energy intensive activity. For this reason, the environmental record of European 
producers would allow the Union to move more decisively towards the goal of a clean and circular economy, as 
indicated in the Commission Communication on a European Green Deal (37). 
(315) Following final disclosure O. Wilms disputed the relevance of the abovementioned recycling issue to this 
investigation. However, the Commission considers that recycling of aluminium is relevant to the European Green 
Deal. 
(316) Following final disclosure Alstom and UNIFE commented that the Union industry would not benefit from the 
measures (imposed on the rail transport industry) because such imports are only a small part of the product 
concerned (estimated by UNIFE at around 1,3 %). However, the Commission considers that bearing in mind that 
some Union producers sell significant quantities into this sector that such producers would indeed benefit from the 
imposition of measures, not least as in the absence of unfair trade they would be likely to expand their sales to this 
sector. 
(317) In the absence of other comments regarding the interest of the Union industry, the conclusions set out in recitals 
(305) to (309) of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 
8.2. Interest of unrelated importers 
(318) Reference is made to recital (9) where two importers came forward following provisional disclosure to make 
comments. In the provisional Regulation, it was indicated that the unrelated importers who submitted a sampling 
form in order to cooperate with the investigation represented around 2 % of imports from China. Following the 
provisional Regulation, two more importers came forward, when the sampling exercise was already closed, without 
submitting a questionnaire response. As a result of the corrected level of imports from China referred to in recital 
(208), the percentage of imports represented by the unrelated importers submitting imports volumes in the 
sampling form is 3,6 %. 
(319) One importer, Airoldi, claimed that there was a difference between hard and soft alloy producers in the Union, and 
that on the hard alloy part of the market there would be a risk of shortage and of high prices, as shown by longer 
waiting times for purchases in the Union market. European Aluminium underlined that the Union industry was 
committed to the hard alloy market, and identified several producers that have invested heavily in the production of 
(36) OECD (2019), ‘Measuring distortions in international markets: the aluminium value chain’, OECD Trade Policy Papers, No 218, OECD 
Publishing, Paris. (available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/c82911ab-en).
(37) Communication from the Commission, ‘The European Green Deal’, COM(2019) 640 final.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/46                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
hard alloys, giving the example of the extrusion presses recently installed by four Union producers. European 
Aluminium further noted that, even without these extra supply options, there was fierce competition between the 
EU producers and sufficient freely available capacity. 
(320) The Commission examined the issue of hard and soft alloys, whose distinction is a commercial simplification based 
mainly on the chemical composition of the aluminium alloy. The investigation showed that several Union producers 
produce both types of alloys. Secondly, the evaluation of the examples of waiting times provided by the importer 
might reflect the particular business circumstances and negotiations between the parties and did not indicate a 
consistent pattern of disruptive waiting times in the face of measures. While it is possible that for some more 
sophisticated products the availability of producers and products would be lower than for more standard 
extrusions, it is nonetheless considered that the potential disruptions would only be temporary and the existence of 
the measures would give the Union producers the opportunity to invest in meeting the demand, without the risk of 
being undercut by unfairly low priced imports. 
(321) The same importer also argued that the existence of autonomous tariff quotas (38) and tariff suspensions (39) for some 
limited products would constitute evidence of the shortage of supply of these products in the European market. In 
this respect, the granting of these tariff suspensions does not appear to be the consequence of a shortage of supply 
but rather the result of a process in which European Aluminium did not take part. Indeed, during the investigation 
period the total volume of imports from the country concerned under the existing tariff suspensions and quotas 
only accounted for around 1 % of imports of the product concerned, and less than 0,1 % of Union consumption. 
Therefore, the relevance of the products benefitting from these measures, as compared to the overall interest of 
businesses in the Union, is minimal. Also, the number of European producers (more than 200) and the available 
unused capacity of the Union industry (about one third of the installed capacity), indicate that after the impact of 
unfairly low prices is removed from the market, the Union producers would have the incentive to serve these niche 
applications. 
(322) The same importer also claimed that the Commission was not entitled to perform a ‘negative’ Union interest test and 
conclude, as in recital (329) of the provisional Regulation, that no compelling reasons existed to decide that it was 
not in the Union interest to impose provisional measures on imports of the product concerned. Moreover, the same 
party claimed that the Commission did not properly consider that the importer introduced the product concerned 
on the Union market, as opposed to importers selling the relevant products to third countries, and failed to put in 
balance this interest vis-à-vis other European parties. With respect to this argument, the investigation has shown no 
evidence of importers further re-exporting the product concerned to third countries. In addition, the Union interest 
test under Article 21(1) of the basic Regulation is inherently a negative test, and that all the relevant interests in the 
Union have been considered in performing such test in this case. 
(323) Concerning the impact of the measures on the importers, the remote cross-check mentioned in recital (13) 
confirmed the provisional determinations. One importer claimed that it never reported the profit margin 
mentioned at recital (317) of the provisional Regulation, that the passing on of the duty to the users would be 
detrimental to the users interest and that the initiation of the investigation on the side of the complainants 
constituted an abuse of rights with a view to strengthen an oligopoly in the market. With regards to the profit 
margin, the investigation confirmed that the profit margin mentioned at recital (317) of the provisional Regulation 
was the appropriate one when considering resales of product concerned in the Union. Furthermore, while the 
interest of the users is considered in the relevant section of the present Regulation, as already affirmed at recital 
(316) of the provisional Regulation, no evidence has been provided proving the existence of abusive oligopolies nor 
(38) See Council Regulation (EU) 2019/2220 of 19 December 2019 amending Regulation (EU) No 1388/2013 opening and providing for 
the management of autonomous tariff quotas of the Union for certain agricultural and industrial products (OJ L 333, 27.12.2019, 
p. 33) disposing for two autonomous tariff quotas of (i) 2 000 tonnes on aluminium alloy rods with a diameter of 200 mm or more, 
but not exceeding 300 mm; and of (ii) 1 000 tonnes on Aluminium alloy rods with a diameter of 300,1 mm or more, but not more 
than 533,4 mm.
(39) See Council Regulation (EU) 2019/2197 of 19 December 2019 amending Regulation (EU) No 1387/2013 suspending the 
autonomous Common Customs Tariff duties on certain agricultural and industrial products (OJ L 335, 27.12.2019, p. 1) and 
following.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/47   
of anticompetitive behaviour. In addition, no relevant investigation is ongoing. At any rate, the number of seven 
suppliers for certain products is not particularly low in these circumstances, especially bearing in mind that some 
producers were large and had spare capacity. 
(324) Following the imposition of provisional measures, several unrelated importers came forward and were heard 
individually and/or were granted a joint hearing. In the framework of these hearings, the arguments raised were the 
lack of sufficient supply in the Union market, especially in hard alloy products, as well as the high level of the 
provisional duty rates, which makes the imports no longer commercially viable. As explained in recital (321), the 
argument on insufficient supply cannot be accepted. Concerning the price levels prior to the imposition of the 
measures, the unfairly low prices practiced by the Chinese exporting producers created ample possibility of resales 
for the importers, as the high profit margins of the sampled importers demonstrate, which significantly exceed the 
profit margins achieved by the Union industry. However, as the investigation found that these prices are the result 
of unfair dumping practices, the access to products at these prices cannot be considered a normal market situation. 
(325) Another importer, O. Wilms, claimed that the imposition of the measures on a product it imports would have 
significant impact on their customer, who is the user of the product, because of the lack of alternative suppliers in 
the Union. The importer claimed that the imposition of the measures would risk to cause the relocation of the 
process carried out by their customer outside of the Union, with the consequent negative impact on the economy 
and the employment. With respect to this, the argument was not made by the user of the product producing the 
downstream product, but by the importers supplying the user. As such, the credibility of the claim concerning 
relocation could not be established. In addition, according to European Aluminium, the Union industry can 
technically supply all products falling within the scope of the investigation. Moreover, since this user of the product 
concerned did neither provide a questionnaire reply nor cooperate with the investigation, it was not possible to 
evaluate precisely the impact of the measures on its business. 
(326) Following final disclosure the importer O. Wilms and Haomei Group claimed that the Union industry will not 
benefit from measures because imports from third countries will replace imports from China. This argument could 
not be accepted because the measures will remove the price pressure exerted by the Chinese imports and allow the 
Union industry to increase prices, to invest and to compete under normal market conditions. 
(327) Also following final disclosure several importers recalled that their imports consisted mainly of bars and rods under 
CN code 7604 29 10 for which there is a need in the Union market and that total imports from all sources under this 
code had decreased over the period 2017-2019. The parties recalled that imports from China had increased only to 
the extent that they had replaced imports from Russia and that therefore they were not injurious. The Commission 
recalls its previous comments regarding these issues and further notes that this argument, which relates to only part 
of the period considered, indicates that imports from China have increased. However, it should be recalled that the 
Commission’s injury and causation analysis has been performed for the product concerned as a whole, irrespective 
of its customs classification and a partial analysis of one code, whatever its potential findings, is not decisive as to 
the overall analysis. 
(328) The importers also repeated their claim that the prices of imports from China under CN code 7604 29 10 were not 
injurious and were of a high quality. Again, the Commission wishes to point out that its price comparisons 
mentioned at recital (224) covered the entire sample of exporting producers using a detailed type by type and 
transaction by transaction methodology for the investigation period. The Commission confirms, therefore, that its 
findings on price issues are clear, representative and accurate. 
(329) The importers repeated their claim that anti-dumping measures were not required because the geographical 
remoteness of China was a sufficient barrier to trade. In the light of the volume and price injury findings of this 
investigation the Commission recalls that the geographical remoteness neither prevented Chinese imports to gain 
market share nor to sell at prices which severely undercut the prices of Union industry. As a consequence it is only 
by the imposition of duties that a level playing field can be re-established. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/48                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(330) The importers and Haomei Group claimed that the imposition of provisional measures has increased lead times for 
certain product types and, once Union demand recovers, this will lead to supply problems for certain product types 
resulting in shortages and higher prices. However, it should be recalled that anti-dumping measures are designed to 
increase import prices in order to ensure that fair competition is restored. It is inevitable that a degree of market 
disruption will occur during an initial period. As detailed in recital (320) above, the effect of such potential 
disruption would not be disproportionate in view of the benefits to be derived from the imposition of measures. 
(331) In light of these considerations, the conclusions mentioned at recital (317) of the provisional Regulation concerning 
the impact of the measures on the importers’ business should be maintained. 
8.3. Interest of users 
(332) As mentioned in recital (318) of the provisional Regulation, the product under investigation is sourced by several 
user industries, mainly building, transport, engineering and for various other applications. 
(333) Concerning three important user sectors, namely construction, automotive and engineering, the Commission did 
not receive any comments following the imposition of the provisional measures. 
(334) The Commission however received comments from a number of users who supply products for other applications. 
These parties highlighted three kinds of potential problems: availability of supply, long lead times for sourcing the 
products from Union producers and higher prices. Apart from the user Alstom mentioned in recital (337), no other 
party submitted a reply to the user questionnaire. 
(335) Some parties also claimed that, as a result of the additional costs due to the duties, the finished product that they 
produce, and which uses the product concerned as an input, would suffer additional competition from imported 
finished products which already include the product concerned at the time of importation, and therefore do not 
incur anti-dumping duties. This could cause critical negative effects for the companies’ activities. 
(336) Where the Commission received data making it possible to carry out an analysis of the impact of the duties, this 
analysis showed that the impact of the duties is likely to be manageable. However, given the different situations and 
claims submitted by the parties, more details on each claim are provided in the following paragraphs. After final 
disclosure, an importer contested the use of the word ‘manageable’ because it considers that the impact on end 
users and customers cannot be qualified as such. However, as it did not provide any additional elements in support 
of this claim, the analysis of the following paragraphs should be confirmed. 
Rail transport industry 
(337) Concerning the rail transport industry, the train manufacturer Alstom claimed that some extrusions would not be 
sufficiently available within the required lead times if purchased from Union producers, and that it suffered in the 
past from refusals to supply. In the frame of its submission, Alstom provided confidential excerpts of 
correspondence with Union producers, in which these producers allegedly refused to supply certain products or to 
meet certain specifications, or proposed alternative solutions. However, Alstom indicated that at least one Union 
producer is able to supply the whole range of products it requires. Therefore, already as things stand, this user can 
source all of its products from Union producers. With respect to the potential long waiting times, measures would 
allow the Union industry to perform the necessary investments, once unfair pricing competition is removed. While 
longer waiting times cannot be excluded in some cases, the investigation indicates that this would in all likelihood 
be limited to an initial period, as the user (re-)builds the necessary technical and business relationship with Union 
industry, and as the latter undertakes further investment. 
(338) The user Alstom further claimed that, if it was to suffer an increase in costs as a result of the measures, the economic 
impact resulting from it could be extremely negative for its competitiveness on the market for rolling stocks, in 
particular given the small profit margins in the railway sector. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/49   
(339) The availability of products at unfairly low prices cannot be considered a normal market situation upon which to 
rely. Moreover, the investigation determined that, even if Alstom were to continue sourcing the same proportion of 
product concerned from the country concerned, the impact of the duties would be well below 1 % of its cost of 
production of rolling stocks with an aluminium car body and below 0,1 % of the total company turnover. This 
would neither fundamentally affect the company’s profits nor its ability to successfully participate in tenders. 
(340) In conclusion, the analysis on the possible impact of the measures on this user allowed the Commission to conclude 
that this impact would not be disproportionate even in the most unfavourable scenario of having to keep importing 
the product concerned. 
(341) Following final disclosure the Commission also took into account comments from Alstom regarding the impact of 
measures on the rail transport industry and the Union in general. Alstom pointed out that they may face problems 
of security of supply because extrusions for car body shells need to be supplied by a single producer. 
(342) Moreover, in its confidential submissions, Alstom made claims concerning the fact that the possibility of supply 
from one Union producer was erroneous because of confidential information related to Alstom’s sourcing and 
relations with the suppliers. Irrespective of the fact that this claim was not reported or summarized in a non- 
confidential version, from the incomplete anecdotal evidence supplied it was in any case not possible to draw a 
general conclusion regarding the validity of the claim. 
(343) Alstom also claimed that the measures would affect their ability to win public contracts. However, the Commission 
noted that such contracts are awarded based on several factors, not just on price, and that price impacts would not 
necessarily be a decisive factor. 
(344) Alstom further claimed that the measures would delay the entry into service of an environmentally-friendly mode of 
mass transportation. This would hamper the Commission’s achievement of its goals in the transport sector as 
Governments would likely delay or cancel investments in rolling stock. 
(345) However, bearing in mind the impact assessment mentioned at recital (339)(340), the Commission maintains its 
position that the imposition of the measures would not exacerbate, to a significant degree, Alstom’s security of 
supply or its ability to win public contracts. Furthermore, the Commission considers that the industry’s 
competitiveness would not be affected under the new fair market conditions which would apply, and therefore, 
there would be no significant impact on the Commission’s goals in the transport sector. 
(346) UNIFE pointed out that the railway sector is strategic to achieve the Union’s ambition to be climate neutral by 2050 
and that the measures would jeopardise the swift entry into service of rail rolling stock made of aluminium due to 
supply shortages. 
(347) However, the Commission maintains that extrusions for the rail industry should either be available from the Union 
industry or from China (anti-dumping duty paid) and that therefore supply shortages, if any, are not exacerbated by 
the measures. 
(348) UNIFE and Alstom also claimed that there would be severe economic consequences for the rail sector. The main 
claims were that the measures would jeopardize employment and know-how, and result in a lack of competitiveness 
as compared to train builders outside the Union. However, the Commission’s findings at recital (339) demonstrate 
that the measures will not have a significant impact on the rail industry. Therefore, the Commission rejects the 
claim that the measures will have a significant impact on competitiveness and employment. 
Market disruption 
(349) Several interested parties, who seem to import aluminium profiles from the same exporting producer, submitted 
comments after the imposition of provisional measures, claiming that the Union market had been disrupted by the 
provisional measures. These users claimed that the imposition of duties without a transitional period and in the 
middle of the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic would hit their business in a significant way and 
hinder the companies’ compliance with contracts already entered into. In particular, they claimed that all the efforts 
deployed on building a customer-supplier relationship would be lost and would have to be repeated. For these 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/50                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
reasons, they asked for either a transitional period to allow for adjustment to the duties or for a no-dumping 
determination for the exporting producer who supplies them, as it was found not to be dumping in an anti- 
dumping investigation by the Australian authorities. 
(350) With respect to these claims, the finding of absence of dumping in an investigation in a third country does not have 
an impact in the present case. The fact that a company is allegedly not dumping in a third country’s market does not 
mean that it would not be dumping the product concerned in the Union market. This determination needs to be 
conducted by the investigating authorities of each jurisdiction and their findings cannot bind the authorities of any 
other country. With respect to the impact of the measures on the companies’ business, while the change in supplier 
could represent certain challenges for small and medium sized manufacturers, as noted above, the investigation 
indicates that this would in all likelihood be limited to an initial period, as users (re-)build the necessary relationship 
with Union industry. 
(351) In addition to the claims reported in recital (349), one user claimed that as an outcome to the imposition of the 
measures, imported finished products would substitute the imported profiles and the Union would suffer job losses 
on the processing work performed by this company. Moreover, as the finished products produced in a third country 
allegedly do not follow the strict environmental standards in place in the Union, there would be a negative 
environmental effect as a result of the imposition of the duties. The Commission acknowledges these possibilities; 
however, given the fact that this user only provided a letter and did not respond to the questionnaire reply, it is not 
possible to evaluate the impact of the measures on its business. 
(352) Another user, in addition to the claims reported in recital (349), claimed that as an outcome to the imposition of the 
measures, the production of finished products which include the product concerned and which was currently taking 
place in one Member State of the Union could be displaced to China in order to avoid the duties, with significant job 
losses. According to the information provided by this company in its comments, however, the products sold by 
them, which include the product concerned, only represent [6 – 11 %] of the company’s turnover. The company 
explained in a hearing that the sale of these products was nonetheless crucial for them because it was connected to 
a full range of products it supplies to its customers. In any case, paying the duties for an adjustment period while 
exploring other sources of supply would represent in a very conservative scenario (i.e. without considering the 
added value on the imported products) an added cost equal to [1 – 4 %] of the turnover, which does not appear 
disproportionate. However, this user did not submit a questionnaire reply, it was not possible to evaluate precisely 
the impact of the measures on its business. 
(353) Finally, with respect to the users mentioned in recitals (349) to (352), the exporting producer from which these 
companies source their extrusions has exported only a limited volume of the product concerned during the 
investigation period, equal to [0,5 – 1,5 %] of the imports of the product concerned and [< 0,2 %] of the total 
Union consumption. Therefore, the impact of the potential disruptions claimed by the users on the overall Union 
interest should be considered as affecting only a very small part of the market. 
(354) A user producing curtains and curtains systems asked for a two-year transitional period to allow for adjustment to 
the duties, given that finding an appropriate supplier was a lengthy process, especially for a small producer. With 
respect to this claim, once a determination of injurious dumping is made, the granting of a transitional period is not 
within the legal boundaries of the Commission’s discretion. Given the fact that this user did not provide a 
questionnaire reply, it is moreover not possible to evaluate precisely the impact of the measures on its businesses. 
Autonomous tariff suspensions 
(355) Two users importing products under the autonomous tariff suspension claimed that they cannot source the products 
they need from Union producers. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/51   
(356) Concerning the claim from the first company, Stako Sp. z o.o., however, the Commission refers to recital (71). 
Indeed the complainants identified one Union producer who is able and willing to produce and supply the product. 
Moreover, according to the information supplied by this user, it appears that it purchased the product it needs from 
both China and from another third country, and the imports from this other country will remain unaffected by the 
measures and still benefit from the tariff suspension, which applies to customs tariffs from all third countries. 
(357) The second user importing under the autonomous tariff suspension, Bi Silque S.A., supported in its claim by an 
unrelated importer (Airoldi), also claimed that, as a result of the measures, its business would suffer negative 
consequences in terms of loss of competitiveness because of the absence of Union players producing the imported 
products. In view of the information on file provided by European Aluminium, in the past one Union producer 
offered to produce the products at issue but its offer was refused for reasons of pricing. Moreover, European 
Aluminium indicates that there are currently at least four Union producers who can and are willing to produce the 
product, as indicated in recital (78). 
(358) With respect to the impact of the measures on the businesses of these two companies who are benefitting from tariff 
suspensions, it is acknowledged that the change in supplier which might be necessary as a result of the measures 
could represent certain challenges and eventually an increase in costs. However, the availability of products at 
unfairly low prices cannot be considered a normal market situation upon which to rely. Finally, given the fact that 
these users did not provide a questionnaire reply, it is not possible to evaluate precisely the impact of the measures 
on their businesses. 
Delocalisation of downstream production 
(359) One user producing insect protection systems, e.g. for windows and doors, argued that their input materials were 
covered by the anti-dumping measures, while the finished product they produce was not covered by the product 
scope. As a consequence, they claimed that the imposition of the duties would likely bring its company to the 
unavoidable conclusion of having to move the whole production of their finished product to third countries, with a 
consequent loss of jobs in Europe. With respect to this claim, the Commission received an indication from European 
Aluminium that the Union industry is able to produce all the product types currently imported. Moreover, this user 
did not specify whether the alleged consequences it described would stem from the unavailability of supply or to the 
increase in costs. With respect to this last possibility, the availability of products at unfairly low prices cannot be 
considered a normal market situation upon which companies could rely. Moreover, this user did not provide a 
questionnaire reply, so it is not possible to evaluate precisely the impact of the measures on its business. 
(360) This user furthermore claimed that many producers in the Union are not able to produce the delicate extrusions with 
a low wall thickness [< 1 mm] they required. The investigation has however established that there are indeed 
producers in the Union who can produce extrusions with an even lower wall thickness than the one required by 
this user. 
(361) Following final disclosure four users made submissions (Decora S.A., Bash-tec GmbH, Stako Sp. z o.o. and Mat Inter) 
to indicate the impact measures would have on their companies and on the investments made, and to point out that 
they had not been able to identify a Union producer to supply products they needed. Two users mentioned the risks 
of closure of their manufacturing operations based on the imports of the product concerned, with the consequent 
loss of employment, because the finished product they produce would be put at a disadvantage with respect to the 
competing finished product of Chinese origin. Haomei Group in its submission also raised this concern. European 
Aluminium responded by reiterating that Union producers had spare capacity and some of them would be able to 
supply the users concerned with products to match their requirements. They also indicated that users should not 
expect to benefit from unfair pricing. The Commission noted that the imposition of measures may involve a period 
of market disruption and necessitate switching suppliers, which could take some time, involve extra costs and result 
in higher purchase prices. The four users were not major importers from China and some of their supplies of the 
product under investigation were obtained from non-Chinese sources. Furthermore, the impact of the measures on 
these users was not substantiated as they had not submitted questionnaire responses as provided for in the Notice of 
initiation and therefore, any financial information included in their submissions were not sufficiently substantiated 
and could not be examined by the Commission for accuracy. Following the additional final disclosure, Decora 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/52                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
submitted new comments restating its position on the impact of the measures proposed thereto. The comments do 
not relate to any new findings included in the additional final disclosure, and the findings and conclusions reached 
after final disclosure remain valid. 
8.4. Conclusion on Union interest 
(362) On the basis of the above and in the absence of any other comments, the conclusions set out in recital (329) of the 
provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
9. UNION INTEREST BASED ON EU-27 
(363) All aspects previously disclosed being equally applicable in the EU-27 context, the conclusions as previously 
disclosed are confirmed, not least as the lower proposed duty level would reduce the impact, if any, of the measures 
on importers and users, while providing the necessary protection to the Union industry. 
(364) Following the additional final disclosure Airoldi and Euranimi commented that higher prices, longer lead times and 
higher transport had resulted from the imposition of measures. This point has no validity with specific respect to 
the disclosure made and the impacts described did not occur in the period considered. Therefore, this point cannot 
be accepted. Indeed, the additional final disclosure suggests reduced duties and therefore, an even lower impact on 
importers and users in respect of the Union interest than under the EU-28 scenario. 
10. DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 
(365) In view of the conclusions reached with regard to dumping, injury, causation and Union interest, and in accordance 
with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation, definitive anti-dumping measures should be imposed in order to prevent 
further injury being caused to the Union industry by the dumped imports of the product concerned. 
(366) The Commission determined the injury elimination level on the basis of a comparison of the weighted average 
import price of the cooperating exporting producers, as established for the price undercutting calculations, with the 
weighted average non-injurious price of the like product sold by the sampled Union producers on the Union market 
(EU-27) during the investigation period. The difference resulting from this comparison was expressed as a percentage 
of the weighted average import CIF value. 
(367) In terms of the residual margin, the Commission intends to base the residual underselling margin at the level of 
56,1 %. This margin was set at the level of the highest underselling margin established for a product type sold in 
representative quantities in the EU-27, on the basis of the data of the cooperating exporting producers. 
(368) A user commented that a 16 % target profit was unrealistic for the extrusions industry, while European Aluminium 
provided evidence that the profit margin used for the calculation of the non-injurious price at recital (339) of the 
provisional Regulation was inadequate, indicating that 16 % was necessary for the survival of the industry. While it 
does not enter into the adequacy of this argument, the Commission noted that the use of a higher target profit 
would be irrelevant since the duty is already set at the level of the dumping margins. Thus, there is no need to 
modify the injury elimination levels. 
(369) On the basis of the above, the rates at which such duties will be imposed are set as follows:                                                                
Company 
Dumping margin (%) 
Injury elimination 
level (%) 
Anti-dumping duty (%) 
Guangdong Haomei New Materials Co. Ltd. 
21,2 
29,8 
21,2 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/53   
Guangdong King Metal Light Alloy Technology 
Co. Ltd. 
21,2 
29,8 
21,2 
Press Metal International Ltd. 
25,0 
52,7 
25,0 
Press Metal International Technology Ltd. 
25,0 
52,7 
25,0 
Other cooperators 
22,1 
35,1 
22,1 
All other companies 
32,1 
56,1 
32,1   
(370) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the 
findings of this investigation. Therefore, they reflect the situation found during this investigation in respect to these 
companies. These duty rates are thus exclusively applicable to imports of the product under investigation 
originating in the country concerned and produced by the named legal entities. Imports of the product concerned 
manufactured by any other company not specifically mentioned in the operative part of this Regulation, including 
entities related to those specifically mentioned, cannot benefit from these rates and should be subject to the duty 
rate applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
(371) A company may request the application of its individual anti-dumping duty rate if it changes subsequently the name 
of its entity. The request must be addressed to the Commission (40). The request must contain all the relevant 
information to demonstrate that the change does not affect the right of the company to benefit from the duty rate 
which applies to it. 
(372) To minimise the risks of circumvention due to the difference in duty rates, special measures are needed to ensure the 
proper application of the individual anti-dumping duties. The companies with individual anti-dumping duties must 
present a valid commercial invoice to the customs authorities of the Member States. The invoice must conform to 
the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this Regulation. Imports not accompanied by that invoice should be 
subject to the anti-dumping duty applicable to ‘all other companies’. 
(373) While presentation of this invoice is necessary for the customs authorities of the Member States to apply the 
individual rates of anti-dumping duty to imports, it is not the only element to be taken into account by the customs 
authorities. Indeed, even if presented with an invoice meeting all the requirements set out in Article 1(3) of this 
Regulation, the customs authorities of Member States should carry out their usual checks and may, like in all other 
cases, require additional documents (shipping documents, etc.) for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the 
particulars contained in the declaration and ensure that the subsequent application of the rate of duty is justified, in 
compliance with customs law. 
(374) Should the exports by one of the companies benefiting from lower individual duty rates increase significantly in 
volume, in particular after the imposition of the measures concerned, such an increase in volume could be 
considered as constituting in itself a change in the pattern of trade due to the imposition of measures within the 
meaning of Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation. In such circumstances, an anti-circumvention investigation may 
be initiated, provided that the conditions for doing so are met. This investigation may, inter alia, examine the need 
for the removal of individual duty rate(s) and the consequent imposition of a country-wide duty. 
(375) To ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duties, the anti-dumping duty for all other companies should 
apply not only to the non-cooperating exporting producers in this investigation, but also to the producers which 
did not have exports to the Union during the investigation period. 
(40) European Commission, Directorate-General for Trade, Directorate G, Rue de la Loi 170, 1040 Brussels, Belgium.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/54                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
(376) As mentioned in recital (202), there are conflicting views about the nature of the products declared under CN code 
7610 90 90. Therefore, there is a risk that operators declare the product concerned as subassemblies or finished 
goods kits under CN code 7610 90 90 to circumvent the measures. Therefore, the Commission considered it 
appropriate to monitor imports of subassemblies and finished good kits in order to minimise the risk. 
(377) Following final disclosure European Aluminium supported the need for such monitoring and enforcement. 
10.1. Definitive collection of the provisional duties 
(378) In view of the dumping margins found and given the level of the injury caused to the Union industry, the amounts 
secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties imposed by the provisional Regulation, should be definitively 
collected up to the levels established under the present Regulation. 
10.2. Retroactivity 
(379) As mentioned in Section 1.2, the Commission made, following a request by the complainant, imports of aluminium 
extrusions subject to registration pursuant to Article 14(5) of the basic Regulation. 
(380) During the definitive stage of the investigation, the data collected in the context of the registration were assessed. The 
Commission analysed whether the criteria under Article 10(4) of the basic Regulation were met for the retroactive 
collection of definitive duties. 
(381) The Commission’s analysis showed that imports from the country concerned fell by 22 % in the period March to 
October 2020, on a monthly basis, as compared to the investigation period. Data received from the Union industry 
showed that, although its production and sales on the Union market also fell in this period, it had not lost market 
share and the Chinese imports had not made further substantial gains in market share in the months following the 
initiation of this investigation. 
(382) Therefore, the condition under Article 10(4)(d) of the basic Regulation was not met in either absolute or relative 
terms. 
(383) On that basis, the Commission concluded that the retroactive collection of the definitive duties for the period during 
which imports were registered was not justified in this case. 
11. FINAL PROVISION 
(384) In view of Article 109 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council (41), 
when an amount is to be reimbursed following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the 
interest to be paid should be the rate applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations, 
as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union on the first calendar day of each month. 
(385) The measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by 
Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is imposed on imports of bars, rods, profiles (whether or not hollow), tubes, pipes; 
unassembled; whether or not prepared for use in structures (e.g. cut-to-length, drilled, bent, chamfered, threaded); made 
from aluminium, whether or not alloyed, containing not more than 99,3 % of aluminium, excluding: 
(1) products attached (e.g. by welding or fasteners) to form subassemblies; 
(41) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable 
to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) 
No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision No 541/2014/EU 
and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/55   
(2) welded tubes and pipes; 
(3) products in a packaged kit with the necessary parts to assemble a finished product without further finishing or 
fabrication of the parts (‘finished goods kit’); 
currently falling under CN codes ex 7604 10 10, ex 7604 10 90, 7604 21 00, 7604 29 10, 7604 29 90, ex 7608 10 00, 
7608 20 81, 7608 20 89 and ex 7610 90 90 (TARIC codes 7604 10 10 11, 7604 10 90 11, 7604 10 90 25, 
7604 10 90 80, 7608 10 00 11, 7608 10 00 80, 7610 90 90 10) and originating in the People’s Republic of China. 
2.
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Union-frontier price, before duty, of the 
products described in paragraph 1 and produced by the companies listed below, shall be as follows:                                                              
Company 
Duty rate (%) 
TARIC additional code 
Guangdong Haomei New Materials Co., Ltd. 
21,2 
C562 
Guangdong King Metal Light Alloy Technology Co., Ltd. 
21,2 
C563 
Press Metal International Ltd. 
25,0 
C564 
Press Metal International Technology Ltd. 
25,0 
C565 
Other cooperating companies listed in Annex 
22,1  
All other companies 
32,1 
C999   
3.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be 
conditional upon presentation to the Member States’ customs authorities of a valid commercial invoice, on which shall 
appear a declaration dated and signed by an official of the entity issuing such invoice, identified by name and function, 
drafted as follows: ‘I, the undersigned, certify that the (volume) of (product concerned) sold for export to the European Union covered 
by this invoice was manufactured by (company name and address) (TARIC additional code) in [country concerned]. I declare that the 
information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.’ If no such invoice is presented, the duty applicable to all other 
companies shall apply. 
4.
The Commission shall pay particular attention to potential avoidance of measures, and in particular monitor imports 
of products attached (e.g. by welding or fasteners) to form subassemblies referred to in paragraph 1(1) above and of finished 
goods kits referred to in paragraph 1(3) above, under TARIC codes 7610 90 90 91 and 7610 90 90 92, respectively. 
5.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply. 
Article 2 
The amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty under Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1428 shall 
be definitively collected. The amounts secured in excess of the definitive rates of the anti-dumping duty shall be released. 
Article 3 
No definitive anti-dumping duty will be levied retroactively for registered imports. Data collected in accordance with 
Article 1 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1215 shall no longer be kept. 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/56                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Article 4 
Article 1(2) may be amended to add new exporting producers from the People’s Republic of China and make them subject 
to the appropriate weighted average anti-dumping duty rate for cooperating companies not included in the sample. A new 
exporting producer shall provide evidence that: 
(a) it did not export the goods described in Article 1(1) originating in the People’s Republic of China during the period of 
investigation (1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019); 
(b) it is not related to an exporter or producer subject to the measures imposed by this Regulation; and 
(c) it has either actually exported the product concerned or has entered into an irrevocable contractual obligation to export 
a significant quantity to the Union after the end of the period of investigation. 
Article 5 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 29 March 2021.  
For the Commission 
The President 
Ursula VON DER LEYEN     
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/57   
ANNEX 
Cooperating exporting producers not sampled 
Name 
TARIC additional code 
Foshan Guangcheng Aluminium Co Ltd 
C566 
Foshan Modern Copper & Aluminum Extrusion Co.,Ltd. 
C567 
Foshan City Nanhai Yongfeng Aluminium Co., Ltd 
C568 
Foshan QianYang aluminium Co.,Ltd 
C569 
Foshan Sanshui Fenglu Aluminium Co., Ltd 
C570 
Foshan Sanshui Match Hardware Products Co., Ltd. 
C571 
Fuyao Group: 
— Fujian Fuyao Automotive Aluminium System Co.,Ltd 
— Jiangsu Fuyao Automotive Trim System Co., Ltd. 
C572 
Giant Light Metal Technology Co., Ltd. 
C573 
Goomax Metal Co., Ltd. Fujian 
C574 
Guangdong Huachang Aluminium Factory Co Ltd 
C575 
Guangdong Jiangsheng Aluminium Co., Ltd. 
C599 
Guangdong Jihua Aluminium Co., Ltd. 
C576 
Guangdong Nanhai Light Industrial Products Imp. & Exp. Co Ltd 
C577 
Guangdong Weiye Aluminium Factory Group Co., Ltd. 
C578 
Guangdong Xingfa Aluminium Co., Ltd 
C579 
Guangya Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd 
C580 
HOSHION Group: 
— Zhongshan Hoshion Smart Home Accessories Co., Ltd. 
— Cyma Precision Aluminium Co., Ltd. 
— Guangdong Hoshion Industrial Aluminium Co. Ltd. 
C581 
Jiangmen Cosco Shipping Aluminium Co., Ltd 
C582 
Jiangsu Asia-Pacific Light Alloy Technology Co., Ltd 
C583 
Jilin Qixing Aluminium Industries Co., Ltd 
C584 
JMA Group: 
— Foshan Jma Aluminium Co., Ltd 
— Guangdong JMA Aluminium Profile Factory (Group) Co., Ltd. 
C585 
PanAsia Aluminium (China) Limited 
C586 
Pingguo Jianfeng Aluminium Co., Ltd. 
C587 
Qingyuan Time Aluminum Co., Ltd. 
C588 
Shandong Huajian Aluminium Group: 
— Shandong Huajian Aluminium Group Co., Ltd 
— Shandong Huajian Aluminium Technology Co., Ltd 
C589 
Shandong Nanshan Aluminium Co., Ltd 
C590 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 109/58                                                                                                                                         
30.3.2021   
Shandong Nollvetec Lightweight Equipment Co.Ltd 
C591 
Shandong Xinyudong Aluminium Co., Ltd. 
C592 
Shenyang Yuanda Aluminium Industry Engineering Co., Ltd. 
C593 
Sihui Shi Guoyao Aluminum Co., Ltd 
C594 
Tai Shan City Kam Kiu Aluminium Extrusion Co., Ltd 
C595 
Tianjin Jinpeng Aluminium Profiles Manufacture Co., Ltd. 
C607 
Tongcheng Metal Material Co., Ltd 
C596 
Xinhe Group: 
— Guangdong Xinhe Aluminum Co., Ltd. 
— Guangdong Yaoyinshan Aluminium Co., Ltd. 
— Guangdong Xinhe Aluminium Xinxing Co., Ltd 
C597 
Yingkou Liaohe Aluminum Products Co., Ltd. 
C598   
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
30.3.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 109/59   
