COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2015/10 
of 6 January 2015 
on criteria for applicants for rail infrastructure capacity and repealing Implementing Regulation 
(EU) No 870/2014 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 
establishing a single European railway area (1), and in particular Article 41(3) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1)  
Article 41(2) of Directive 2012/34/EU provides for the possibility for infrastructure managers to set requirements 
with regard to applicants to ensure that their legitimate expectations about future revenues and utilisation of the 
infrastructure are safeguarded. 
(2)  
Those requirements should be appropriate, transparent and non-discriminatory. They can only include the 
provision of a financial guarantee that should not exceed an appropriate level proportional to the contemplated 
level of activity, and assurance of the capability of the applicant to prepare compliant bids for infrastructure 
capacity. 
(3)  
Financial guarantees could take the form of advance payments or guarantees provided by financial institutions 
(4)  
The appropriateness of the requirements referred to in Article 41(2) of Directive 2012/34/EU should take 
account of the fact that the infrastructure of competing transport modes, such as road and air transport, sea 
ships and inland waterways, is often free of user charges and hence also free of financial guarantees thereon. In 
order to ensure fair competition between transport modes, financial guarantees should be limited to the strict 
minimum in terms of level and duration. 
(5)  
Those financial guarantees are only appropriate if they are necessary for the purpose of reassuring the 
infrastructure manager about the future revenues and utilisation of the infrastructure. Considering that 
infrastructure managers are able to rely on the checks and surveillance of the financial fitness of railway 
undertakings under the licensing procedure in accordance with Chapter III of Directive 2012/34/EU, and in 
particular Article 20 of that Directive, the need for financial guarantees is further reduced. 
(6)  
The principle of non-discrimination applies to those guarantees, therefore there should be no distinction between 
the guarantee requirements for privately and publicly owned applicants. 
(7)  
Guarantees should be commensurate with the level of risk posed by the applicant for the infrastructure manager 
at different stages of capacity allocation. The risk is considered generally to be low as long as the capacity can be 
re-allocated to other railway undertakings. 
(8)  
A guarantee which is requested in relation to the preparation of compliant bids can only be considered as 
appropriate, transparent and non-discriminatory if the infrastructure manager sets out clear and transparent rules 
for preparing a capacity request in the network statement, and offers the necessary support tools to applicants. 
Since it is not possible to objectively determine the capability of preparing compliant bids before the application 
procedure, any lack of capability can only be determined after that procedure, on the basis of a repeated failure 
to put forward those bids or provide the necessary information to the infrastructure manager. The applicant 
should be responsible for that failure which carries a sanction involving the exclusion of the applicant from the 
application for a specific train path. 
7.1.2015 
L 3/34 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 32. 
(9)  
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 870/2014 (1) was mistakenly adopted in a version other than that 
which had received the positive opinion of the Committee. Implementing Regulation (EU) No 870/2014 should 
accordingly be repealed. 
(10)  
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee referred to in 
Article 62(1) of Directive 2012/34/EU, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Subject matter 
This Regulation sets out the requirements for financial guarantees that an infrastructure manager may request to ensure 
that its legitimate expectations about future revenues are met without exceeding a level proportional to the level of 
activities contemplated by the applicant. The requirements include in particular the conditions when a guarantee or an 
advance payment may be requested and the level and duration of a financial guarantee. In addition, this Regulation sets 
out certain details as regards the criteria to assess the capability of an applicant to prepare compliant bids for 
infrastructure capacity. 
Article 2 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definition applies: 
‘financial guarantee’ means (a) advance payments to reduce and anticipate future obligations to pay infrastructure 
charges or (b) contractual arrangements by which a financial institution such as bank commits to ensure that such 
payments are effected once they are due. 
Article 3 
Conditions for financial guarantees 
1.
The applicant may choose to meet a request for financial guarantee by means of either advance payment or 
contractual arrangement in the meaning of Article 2. If an applicant provides an advance payment for infrastructure 
charges, the infrastructure manager shall not at the same time request other financial guarantees for the same 
contemplated activities. 
2.
The infrastructure manager may request applicants to provide financial guarantees where the credit rating of the 
applicant suggests that he might have difficulties in effecting regular payments for infrastructure charges. The 
infrastructure manager shall mention such credit ratings in the section on charging principles of its network statement, 
if applicable. The infrastructure manager shall base his request for a financial guarantee on ratings not older than two 
years provided by a credit rating agency or another professional rating or credit scoring entity. 
3.
The infrastructure manager shall not request a financial guarantee: 
(a)  from the designated railway undertaking if a financial guarantee has already been granted or paid by the applicant, 
which is not a railway undertaking, to cover future payments for the same contemplated activities; 
(b)  if the infrastructure charge is to be paid directly to the infrastructure manager by a competent authority pursuant to 
Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council (2). 
7.1.2015 
L 3/35 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 870/2014 of 11 August 2014 on criteria for applicants for rail infrastructure capacity 
(OJ L 239, 12.8.2014, p. 11). 
(2) Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on public passenger transport 
services by rail and by road and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) Nos 1191/69 and 1107/70 (OJ L 315, 3.12.2007, p. 1). 
Article 4 
Level and duration of financial guarantees 
1.
The level of financial guarantees regarding one applicant shall not exceed the estimated amount of charges 
incurred during two months of train operations requested. 
2.
An infrastructure manager shall not require that a financial guarantee takes effect or is paid more than 10 days 
before the first of the month in which the railway undertaking starts the train operations in relation to the infrastructure 
charges which this financial guarantee is to cover. If the capacity is allocated after this point in time, the infrastructure 
manager may request the financial guarantee at short notice. 
Article 5 
Capability to prepare compliant bids for infrastructure capacity 
The infrastructure manager shall not reject an application for a specific train path on grounds of failing to provide 
assurance of the capability to prepare a compliant bid for infrastructure capacity, within the meaning of Article 41(2) of 
Directive 2012/34/EU, unless: 
(a)  the applicant has failed to answer two subsequent requests requiring the provision of the missing information or has 
repeatedly responded in a way that does not satisfy the conditions set out in the network statement referred to in 
Article 27 of Directive 2012/34/EU and in Annex IV to that Directive regarding the application procedures for train 
paths and 
(b)  the infrastructure manager is able to demonstrate at the request of and to the satisfaction of the regulatory body that 
it has taken all reasonable steps to support the correct and timely submission of applications. 
Article 6 
Transitional provision 
Where necessary, infrastructure managers shall align their network statements to the provisions of this Regulation for 
the first time table period following the entry into force of this Regulation. 
Article 7 
Implementing Regulation (EU) No 870/2014 is repealed. 
Article 8 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
It shall apply from 16 June 2015, with the exception of Article 7, which shall apply from the date of entry into force. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 6 January 2015. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Jean-Claude JUNCKER  
7.1.2015 
L 3/36 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
