COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2017/763 
of 2 May 2017 
imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed 
on imports of certain lightweight thermal paper originating in the Republic of Korea 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Council Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and the Council of 8 June 2016 on 
protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community (1) (‘the basic Regulation’), 
and in particular Article 9(4) thereof, 
Whereas: 
1. PROCEDURE 
1.1. Provisional Measures 
(1)  
On 16 November 2016 the European Commission (‘the Commission’) imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty 
on imports into the Union of certain lightweight thermal paper (‘LWTP’) originating in the Republic of Korea 
(‘the country concerned’) by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2005 (2) (‘the provisional 
Regulation’). 
(2)  
The investigation was initiated on 18 February 2016 (3) following a complaint lodged on 4 January 2016 by the 
European Thermal Paper Association (‘ETPA’ or ‘the complainant’) on behalf of producers representing more than 
25 % of the total Union production of certain LWTP. 
(3)  
As stated in recital (14) of the provisional Regulation, the investigation of dumping and injury covered the period 
from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 (‘the investigation period’ or ‘IP’). The examination of trends relevant 
for the assessment of injury covered the period from 1 January 2012 to the end of the investigation period (‘the 
period considered’). 
1.2. Subsequent procedure 
(4)  
Subsequent to the disclosure of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which a provisional anti- 
dumping duty was imposed (the provisional disclosure), three interested parties made written submissions 
making known their views on the provisional findings. The parties who so requested were granted an 
opportunity to be heard. 
(5)  
Both the Hansol Group and ETPA requested the intervention by the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings (‘the 
Hearing Officer’). During the hearings held on 13 December 2016 and 2 March 2017, the Hansol Group came 
back on issues discussed in the hearing of 10 March 2016 (i.e. on the exemption from replying to the 
questionnaire requested for a number of related converters) and contested the methodology used for dumping 
and injury calculations. In the hearing of 22 March 2017, the Hansol Group referred to some dumping 
calculations issues and proposed a change in the form of the measures. In the hearing of 24 January 2017, ETPA 
expressed concern about some confidentiality issues and contested the Hansol Group's claims regarding the 
product scope and the level of support to measures. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/3 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21. 
(2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2005 of 16 November 2016 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of 
certain lightweight thermal paper originating in the Republic of Korea (OJ L 310, 17.11.2016, p. 1). 
(3) OJ C 62, 18.2.2016, p. 7. 
(6)  
After the imposition of the provisional measures, the Commission continued seeking and verifying all 
information it deemed necessary for its definitive findings. The Commission informed all parties of the essential 
facts and considerations on the basis of which it intended to impose a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports 
into the Union of LWTP originating in the Republic of Korea (the definitive disclosure). All parties were granted 
a period within which they could make comments on the definitive disclosure. After definitive disclosure, further 
changes were made to the dumping and injury calculations for which all parties were informed and granted 
a period within which they could make comments (the additional final disclosure). Subsequently, all parties were 
granted a period within which they could make comments on the change of the form of the measures. 
(7)  
The comments submitted by the interested parties were considered and taken into account where appropriate. 
1.3. Product concerned and like product 
1.3.1. Product concerned 
(8)  
As set out in recital (15) of the provisional Regulation, the product concerned is lightweight thermal paper 
weighing 65 g/m2 or less; in rolls of a width of 20 cm or more, a weight of the roll (including the paper) of 
50 kg or more and a diameter of the roll (including the paper) of 40 cm or more (‘jumbo rolls’); with or without 
a base coat on one or both sides; coated with a thermo-sensitive substance (that is a mixture of dye and 
a developer that react and form an image when heat is applied) on one or both sides; and with or without a top 
coat, originating in the Republic of Korea, currently falling within CN codes ex 4809 90 00, ex 4811 90 00, 
ex 4816 90 00 and ex 4823 90 85. 
1.3.2. Claims on the product scope 
(9)  
The Hansol Group reiterated its request for excluding phenol-free LWTP from the product scope on the grounds 
that the Commission failed to carry out an appropriate assessment of a series of factors. According to the Hansol 
Group, phenol-free and other types of LWTP have different chemical composition, production processes and 
consumer perception. 
(10)  
In terms of chemical composition, the party stated that phenol-containing LWTP and phenol-free LWTP have 
a very different chemical composition on the grounds that they are treated differently in the EU market from 
a regulatory point of view, depending on the developer used in their production. It should however be noted that 
only bisphenol A (‘BPA’), i.e. one of the numerous possible phenol-containing developers, was recently banned in 
the Union with effect in 2020, and that there is no separate legal treatment for all other phenol-containing 
developers. The alleged more strict regulatory treatment of two bisphenol-containing developers does not 
demonstrate that all bisphenols and phenolic substances used as developers are different from other colour 
developers. It is further noted that, although of key importance, the developer is just one of the numerous types 
of chemicals required to produce LWTP. In addition, nothing on file supports the allegation that LWTP 
containing BPA had already been banned in some Member States. Therefore, it is concluded, from a material 
point of view, that phenol-containing LWTP and phenol-free LWTP do not have a different chemical 
composition. The claim is therefore rejected. 
(11)  
As regards production processes, the party claimed that it is not possible to produce phenol-free and BPA-free 
LWTP on the same production line. The investigation however showed that, technically, it is possible to produce 
phenol-free LWTP and phenol-containing LWTP on the same production line, albeit in different batches, and that 
Union producers do so. 
(12)  
As to consumer perception, the party alleged that consumers are aware of the presence of bisphenol in LWTP. 
Furthermore the Hansol group claimed that an American LWTP producer started producing phenol-free LWTP in 
response to customer demand and that a supermarket chain in the Union expressed concerns about the type of 
developer used in LWTP. However, while there may be different consumer preferences, in general all product 
types are interchangeable from a demand side point of view (without any changes being made by end-users) and 
compete between each other. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/4 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(13)  
The Hansol group also alleged that there is limited availability of Pergafast 201 (a phenol-free dye developer) and 
a significant price difference between phenol-free and phenol-containing LWTP in light of the purchase prices of 
two companies in the Union related to the Hansol Group. 
(14)  
Given the existence of many types of developers, the alleged limited availability of only one specific type, i.e. the 
Pergafast 201 (that, in any case, the Hansol Group does not seem to have used), is irrelevant, because there are 
other alternative sources. For instance, in 2015 the European Chemical Agency's Committees, namely the 
Committee for Risk Assessment (‘RAC’) and the Committee for Socioeconomic Analysis (‘SEAC’), considered that 
then there were some 10 realistic alternatives to bisphenol A in thermal paper plus novel promising 
alternatives (1). The suppliers of chemical developers are expected to be ready for the ban on BPA mentioned in 
recital (10) and for the expiry of the patent on Pergafast 201 by 2019. 
(15)  
As to the alleged price difference, it is common that the product covered by an anti-dumping investigation 
includes various types with different price ranges. This price difference is however not sufficient in itself to 
consider the various types as different products for the purpose of defining a product subject to an anti-dumping 
investigation, as long as the various types share the same basic characteristics and compete with each other, 
which is the case here. In any event, any element affecting prices is taken into consideration for the purpose of 
the price comparison. The Hansol group reiterated that there is a significant price difference between phenol-free 
and phenol containing LWTP (according to the purchase prices of its converters in the Union), which would 
allegedly demonstrate that they are different products. In this respect, the overall finding in recital (113) of the 
provisional Regulation that the unit sales prices of phenol-free LWTP dropped less than the unit sales prices of 
phenol-containing LWTP cannot be contradicted by the purchase prices of two companies in the Union related to 
the Hansol Group, which represent a small share of the Union consumption. 
(16)  
The Hansol group initially claimed that phenol-free LWTP should not be covered by the investigation on the 
grounds that phenol-free LWTP is neither produced nor exported from the Republic of Korea. In this respect, the 
Hansol Group's webpages show that this party has bisphenol-free thermal paper and LWTP without BPA on offer. 
(17)  
The Hansol Group also claimed that the Commission was incorrect in defining a too broad product scope, 
because it will hamper future technological developments. In particular, the party alleged that the complainants' 
catalogues do not show LWTP weighing less than 44 g/m2, reiterating its claim mentioned in recital (20) of the 
provisional Regulation that such type of LWTP should be excluded. 
(18)  
The above claim was not supported by any evidence. First, nothing on file shows that LWTP of less than 44 g/m2 
has different physical, technical and chemical characteristics, use, consumer perception, distribution channels, 
manufacturing process, costs of production and quality from other LWTP or is not interchangeable. Second, there 
is no technical barrier that would prevent producers from producing LWTP of less than 44 g/m2. In fact, one 
Union producer currently sells LWTP weighing 42 g/m2. Third, there is no clear dividing line when it comes to 
grammage. Thermal paper producers work with a tolerance in terms of weight. It is for instance possible that 
a paper marketed as 45 g/m2 weighs actually a bit less or that a paper marketed as 44 g/m2 weighs indeed more 
than announced. Thus, the claim was dismissed. 
1.3.3. Conclusion 
(19)  
Accordingly, the conclusions regarding the product concerned and the like product reached in recitals (16) 
to (24) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
2. DUMPING 
2.1. Normal value 
(20)  
As explained in recital (12) of the provisional Regulation, the Hansol Group comprises of the Korean 
exporting producers Hansol Paper and Artone. In the case of Artone, there were two product types with no or 
3.5.2017 
L 114/5 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) RAC and SEAC, Background document to the Opinion on the Annex XV dossier proposing restrictions on 4.4′-isopropylidenediphenol 
(Bisphenol A; BPA), 4 December 2015, available at http://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/d52d2c6b-2f1c-4ddf-bb44- 
4e3e42ea1820, p. 356-358. 
unrepresentative domestic sales. For these two product types, the normal value was, pursuant to Article 2(3) of 
the basic Regulation, calculated on the basis of Artone's cost of production (see recitals (34) to (36) of the 
provisional Regulation). Following provisional disclosure, the Hansol Group claimed that, in the determination of 
the normal value for these two product types, the Commission should have used the prices of the other 
producer, Hansol Paper, instead of constructing the normal value on the basis of Artone's cost of production. 
This claim was reiterated after definitive disclosure. 
(21)  
The claim was rejected, since the Commission established that the cost structure and sales prices of Artone were 
significantly different from that of Hansol Paper. In addition, for one of these two product types sold by Hansol 
Paper, the domestic sales quantities were found to be unrepresentative. Therefore, the Commission confirmed that 
under these circumstances it was more appropriate that the normal value for these product types be calculated 
on the basis of Artone's cost of production plus a reasonable amount for selling, general and administrative costs 
(‘SGA’) and profit, in accordance with the first option under Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation. 
2.2. Export price 
(22)  
In its comments on the provisional disclosure, the Hansol Group contested the inclusion of small rolls in the 
dumping calculations for two reasons. First, the volume of jumbo rolls sales to unrelated parties would be 
significant and therefore a calculation on the basis of those sales would be representative. Second, small rolls are 
not the product concerned. 
(23)  
As explained in recitals (25) and (37) of the provisional Regulation, the vast majority (between 75 % and 85 %) 
of the Union sales by Hansol Paper and Artone were sales to related parties destined for conversion into small 
rolls. In view of the significant quantity of the jumbo rolls that were converted into small rolls and only then 
resold to unrelated customers, the Commission maintained that these small rolls could not be ignored in the 
calculations. It was thus appropriate that for the sales of jumbo rolls to related parties for conversion into small 
rolls, the export price be established on the basis of the price at which the imported and converted product was 
first resold to independent customers in the Union, in accordance with Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation. 
(24)  
Following definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group repeated its objection to the inclusion of small rolls in the 
dumping calculation. However, no new elements were brought forward. 
(25)  
Furthermore, the Hansol Group criticised the fact that, as concerns sales through related parties, the dumping 
margin was based on data from one related converter and not on data from all four related converters. 
(26)  
In this respect, the following is to be noted. On 19 February 2016, the Hansol Group requested the Commission 
to fully exempt three of the four related converters from replying to the questionnaire. On 23 February 2016, the 
Commission accepted that request while specifically reserving the right to make further enquiries/requests for 
information as and when necessary in respect of these other three related converters. On 7 March 2016, after 
having further analysed the information submitted by the Hansol Group during a meeting on 22 February 2016, 
the Commission requested these three related converters to reply to an adapted version of the questionnaire 
which, inter alia, included the request for data regarding conversion costs and small rolls resales. On 8 March 
2016, the Hansol Group requested a hearing with the Hearing Officer which took place on 10 March 2016. It 
motivated its request for the hearing by repeating its request to exempt the three related converters from replying 
to the questionnaire and as it could not understand ‘why the Commission (would request) cost and sales data for the 
product not concerned and how these data could be used in any meaningful way in the present investigation’. This position 
was reiterated during the hearing. 
(27)  
The Hearing Officer suggested finding a compromise between the Commission services and the interested party 
on the question of how to verify if the volume of data, traceability and construction of the export price based on 
sales of small rolls was relevant to the investigation and he suggested a pre-verification visit to the fourth related 
importer, for which no exemption had been requested, to verify the correctness of the party's explanations above 
3.5.2017 
L 114/6 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
and, based on the positive results, a limitation of the investigation to that party as concerns the construction of 
the export price with regard to Hansol Group's sales of small rolls. Further to these suggestions, the Commission 
considered how it could be possible to reduce the burden for the related converter companies and how to 
establish traceability between the sales of small rolls and imports of jumbo rolls. 
(28)  
After that first hearing in March 2016 and the subsequent on-site visit, the Commission established the 
following. First, among the four related converters, one related converter purchased, by far, the lowest share of 
jumbo rolls for conversion from other unrelated non-Korean jumbo rolls producers (i.e. less than 25 % of its 
jumbo roll purchases). Second, that same related converter purchased the largest volumes of jumbo rolls for 
conversion into small rolls from Hansol Group. Third, the same related converter accounted for most of the 
Hansol Group's sales of jumbo rolls to related converters in the Union and it also accounted for the largest 
volume of jumbo rolls re-sales to independent customers. Finally, its volume of sales to unrelated customers of 
small rolls was also significantly higher than such volumes by all four related converters, except for one. 
However, the latter was only acquired during the second half of the investigation period and was thus less rep­
resentative. 
(29)  
Against this backdrop, the Commission decided to base its findings with regard to Hansol Group's sales through 
related converters on the data from that related converter which was considered the most representative. These 
findings were considered as representative in respect of the company's sales through related converters in view of 
this related convertor's low volumes of jumbo roll purchases for conversion with a non-Korean origin as well as 
the high volumes of Hansol Group sales to unrelated parties it had been involved in. 
(30)  
Furthermore, as indicated in recital (25) of the provisional Regulation, both sales channels (i.e. sales of jumbo 
rolls to unrelated parties and sales of jumbo rolls to related parties destined for conversion into small rolls) were 
given the appropriate weight. Thus, as explained in recital (45) of the provisional Regulation, the finding with 
regard to the sales of jumbo rolls to related parties for conversion into and subsequent resale as small rolls to 
unrelated parties was extrapolated to reflect the actual sales flows of the Hansol Group during the investigation 
period. The Commission confirmed that this approach was appropriate for the following reasons. It was recalled 
that, during the investigation period, 75 % - 85 % of Hansol Group's sales to the Union were made through 
related converters for conversion into small rolls. The investigation established that such sales, calculated back to 
the level of the jumbo roll, were made at different prices as compared to the sales of jumbo rolls to unrelated 
customers. Therefore, in order to properly reflect the dumping practised, if any, both sales channels had been 
attributed the appropriate weight, taking duly into account the sales volumes and values of each sales channel. 
(31)  
After definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group further claimed that the Commission had actually sampled the 
related converter. It alleged that by not having informed the Hansol Group during the investigation and notably 
prior to the provisional disclosure that the finding with regard to the sales of jumbo rolls to related parties for 
conversion into and subsequent resale as small rolls to unrelated parties would be extrapolated to reflect the 
actual sales flows of the Hansol Group, the Commission would have violated Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
This claim was repeated after the additional final disclosure. The Hansol Group also submitted that the 
Commission's decision to extrapolate the related converter's findings had no legal basis. 
(32)  
The Commission pointed out from the outset that it did not make use of Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
Given that the Hansol Group had objected to replying to a questionnaire for all four related converters and in 
order to accommodate the suggestion of the Hearing Officer to limit the burden to the party concerned and yet 
arrive at reliable findings with regard to the sales of small rolls and resales of jumbo rolls, the Commission 
focused on the related converter in question because it was, on the basis of the information provided by the 
Hansol Group and verified during the subsequent on spot visit, the best placed to provide the most accurate 
figures with regard to the majority of Hansol Group's Union sales (i.e. its sales to related converters for 
subsequent resale as small roll to unrelated customers). With regard to the other three related converters, the 
Commission found that their Union sales were much less accurate and representative due to a number of factors 
described in recital (28) above. Indeed, the much higher levels of non-Korean sourced jumbo rolls and the fact 
that one of the three other related converters was only acquired in the middle of the investigation period would 
have resulted in a less reliable finding with regard to these Korean sales if they would have been included in the 
analysis. Therefore, the Commission did not make use of Article 17 of the basic Regulation and Hansol Group's 
claim that the Commission had applied sampling with regard to the related converters is not correct. Rather, in 
accordance with Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation, the Commission sought to establish, in the specific 
circumstance of the case at hand, described in recitals (28) and (29) above, the most reliable export price in case 
3.5.2017 
L 114/7 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
of sales of jumbo rolls to related parties destined for conversion into small rolls. Pursuant to Article 6(8) of the 
basic Regulation, the Commission examined the information supplied by the interested party for accuracy as far 
as possible. 
(33)  
In addition, from the early stages of the investigation, the Hansol Group should have been aware of the relevance 
of sales made through related converters. First, in the complaint, when submitting a dumping margin, the 
complainant already drew the attention to the fact that the bulk of the Hansol Group's Union sales was made 
through related converters and that the dumping in respect of these sales was considerably higher than the 
dumping regarding its direct sales. The complainant calculated two margins (one for direct sales and one for sales 
through related companies) for which it determined also a simple average as it could not know exactly how 
significant the Hansol Group's direct sales to unrelated parties were (the percentage mentioned in the complaint 
for the share of these sales in Hansol Group's total Union sales was however very close to reality). Second, 
already during the first hearing, the Commission made it clear to the Hansol Group that it could not ignore the 
majority of Hansol Group's sales which were made through related converters and that they should properly be 
accounted for in the calculation of dumping. For that reason, the Commission had included in the questionnaires 
for related converters a request for full details on the resales of small rolls and on the costs for converting 
a jumbo roll into a small roll. Third, the subsequent discussions and acceptance by the Commission, by email of 
21 March 2016, of the Hansol Group's request to drop the requirement for the other three related converters to 
reply to the questionnaire had the consequence that the Commission had to limit its analysis in respect of those 
sales to the related converter in question. 
(34)  
Finally, the Commission disclosed all the reasons and figures behind the extrapolation done with regard to these 
sales at the stage of the imposition of provisional measures as well as at the stage of definitive disclosure. The 
rights of the interested party in question have thus been fully respected. Hansol Group's claims are therefore 
rejected. 
(35)  
The Hansol Group also claimed that the prices charged to its related converters were at arm's length. It argued 
that therefore, for its sales through related converters, there was no need to construct the export prices using the 
sale prices of the small rolls to unrelated customers. 
(36)  
The Commission rejected this claim because the data on the file did not support it. First, the mostly sold product 
type (representing more than 30 % of Hansol Group's total Union sales) was sold to related parties at a sales 
price that was between 8 % - 15 % higher than the average sales price to unrelated customers. Second, taking all 
product types together, the related companies paid a price that was between 3 % and 6 % higher than the price 
charged to unrelated customers. Therefore, the claim that the Hansol Group's sales prices to related converters 
were at arm's length was not confirmed by the data on the file. In addition, the Commission also found that the 
two verified related parties in the Union were both heavily loss-making as regards the product concerned. This 
corroborates the above finding that the purchase price paid by Hansol Group's related companies in the Union is 
not a market price for the jumbo rolls, considering the costs they have to incur either as conversion costs and/or 
SG&A costs, depending on the related company. On this basis, the Commission considered that it was therefore 
entitled to construct the export prices for its sales through related parties. 
(37)  
The Hansol Group also claimed that certain considerations in the termination of the anti-dumping and anti- 
subsidy proceedings as regards Salmon (1) and in the anti-dumping proceeding on Certain seamless pipes and 
tubes (2) would suggest that there is a Commission practice to use the prices paid by related parties in circum­
stances like the ones in the present proceeding. In respect of the proceeding at hand, the Commission points out 
that, as explained in recital (36) above, it was found that the related sales were not made at arm's length prices 
but at distorted transfer prices and, therefore, they were found to be unreliable for the determination of the 
export price. These circumstances are different from the proceedings mentioned by the Hansol Group, as in those 
3.5.2017 
L 114/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Council Regulation (EC) No 930/2003 of 26 May 2003 terminating the anti-dumping and antisubsidy proceedings concerning imports 
of farmed Atlantic salmon originating in Norway and the anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of farmed Atlantic salmon 
originating in Chile and the Faeroe Islands (OJ L 133, 29.5.2003, p. 1). 
(2) Council Regulation (EC) No 954/2006 of 27 June 2006 imposing definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain seamless pipes and 
tubes, of iron or steel originating in Croatia, Romania, Russia and Ukraine, repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 2320/97 and (EC) 
No 348/2000, terminating the interim and expiry reviews of the anti-dumping duties on imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes of 
iron or non-alloy steel originating, inter alia, in Russia and Romania and terminating the interim reviews of the anti-dumping duties on 
imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes of iron or non-alloy steel originating, inter alia, in Russia and Romania and in Croatia and 
Ukraine (OJ L 175, 29.6.2006, p. 4). 
cases it was found that the sales to the related parties were made at prices which were fully in line with the 
prices charged to independent customers. Furthermore, the Commission in those proceedings also established 
that the related parties were operating with reasonable profits, which does not occur in the proceeding at hand 
(see recital (36)). Therefore, this comment was rejected. 
(38)  
The Hansol Group also submitted that by using the sales of small rolls, the Commission had also included certain 
sales of small rolls that had not been produced (i.e. converted) by the related converter in question, but had been 
purchased from related and unrelated sources. 
(39)  
The Commission did not have information on the purchase prices or the identities of the suppliers for the 
purchases of small rolls by this related converter. It could however be verified that such sales of purchased small 
rolls accounted for 10 % - 15 % (in weight) of the total sales of small rolls to unrelated customers. Considering 
that 85 % - 90 % of the small rolls sold were converted by the converter in question from jumbo rolls, the 
Commission considered its approach reasonable. In addition, the dumping calculation was based on the sales 
prices of small rolls. At the same time, the Hansol Group did not provide any evidence showing that the sales 
price of small rolls would differ for self-produced small rolls as compared to the purchased ones. Hence, there is 
no evidence that the minor share of purchased small rolls had an impact on the dumping calculation. Therefore, 
the Commission rejected this claim. 
(40)  
After provisional and after definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group criticised the inclusion of Union sourced 
jumbo rolls in the dumping calculation for small rolls. As explained in recital (43) of the provisional Regulation, 
due to the lack of traceability between the sales of small rolls and the corresponding jumbo rolls, small rolls 
produced from jumbo rolls with an origin other than Hansol Group could not be excluded from the construction 
of the export price of jumbo rolls converted into and sold as small rolls. This issue only arises because the 
Hansol Group does not have a traceability system in place, like other converters in the Union have. In any case, 
as also mentioned in recital (28)-(29) above, the Commission limited the potential volume of non-Hansol sourced 
jumbo rolls presence in this export price construction by limiting its calculation of such sales to the related 
converter in question. The latter was predominantly producing and reselling small rolls from jumbo rolls that 
were produced by and procured from Hansol Group during the investigation period. The inclusion of those rolls 
could only have a minor impact on the dumping calculation, if at all, due to the relative small proportion of the 
non-Hansol Group sourced jumbo rolls. In any event, the dumping calculation was based on the sales price of 
small rolls, which was likely to be identical, irrespective of the origin of the jumbo roll. The claim was thus 
rejected. 
(41)  
After definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group claimed that, for certain transactions, transport costs had been 
deducted twice when calculating the constructed export price and this double deduction had also been applied to 
the constructed CIF price which had been used as a denominator. The claim was duly verified and it was 
established that indeed for the related converter's sales of small rolls which had been purchased from Hansol 
Group through the related trader certain allowances had been deducted twice. This error was thus corrected with 
regard to both the export price and CIF price construction. 
(42)  
Also regarding the calculation of the constructed export price, the Hansol Group claimed that as regards the 
deduction of allowances from the sales price of the small roll to unrelated customers, insufficient account had 
been taken of the presence of certain volumes of non-Korean base material, resulting in inflated allowances 
overall. After having verified this claim, it was established that it was indeed not justified to apply the allowances 
for calculating a Korean ex-works export price for the portion of small rolls produced from European sourced 
jumbo rolls. This was corrected by deducting, for a representative volume of small roll sales, allowances up to CIF 
level only. Indeed, on the basis of the information on the file, it could be established that the European producer 
had sold the jumbo rolls to Hansol's related converter according to the CIP delivery terms. The calculated CIF 
value was considered, for these sales, to be comparable for the ex-works value of the share of sales with Korean 
origin. 
(43)  
After the additional final disclosure, the Hansol Group contested the fact that the revised unit allowances had 
been calculated as a weighted average for all product types and it proposed to base it, for one product type, on 
the specific allowances incurred on inter-company sales of that product type only. The Commission considered 
that the volume of purchases by the related converter of that particular product type that could be used for this 
3.5.2017 
L 114/9 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
calculation, during the investigation period, was not sufficiently representative to form a reliable basis for 
establishing the allowances for calculating a Korean ex-works export price of that product type. Indeed, most 
volumes of that product type were sourced through another related purchase channel which was not used for 
this calculation. Moreover, the Hansol Group could not demonstrate that the Commission's method to calculate 
and apply an average was not accurate. The claim was therefore rejected. 
(44)  
With regard to the SG&A calculated and applied for sales through one related trader in the Union, the Hansol 
Group contested after provisional and again after definitive disclosure that the amount added by the Commission 
as an expense in the related trader's profit & loss table with regard to management expenses. In this respect, the 
Commission recalls that the related trader in question had received, from Hansol Korea and other related 
converters, a financial contribution relating to management expenses. Those fees were included in the related 
trader's profit & loss table as an income and that had been accepted by the Commission. The Commission found 
it appropriate, under these circumstances, to take also into account 100 % of the related expenses, i.e. the salary 
expenses for the managers in question. These costs had been identified during the on-spot verification in Korea, 
were converted into Euro currency using the average investigation period exchange rate provided by the 
Commission and transferred to the profit & loss table of the related trader as an expense. In this way the 
treatment of the management fees (income) has been brought in balance with the treatment of the management 
salaries (expenses). 
(45)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the related trader had only generated turnover for part of the investigated period 
and that none of the managers had been involved in the sales of the product concerned. Therefore, the SG&A 
figure used had been overstated. The Commission's approach was to establish the SG&A rate (including the 
expenses in question) of the related trader in relation to the total turnover of that trader. That turnover relates in 
its totality to the product concerned. Even if the SG&A costs eventually considered may partly have been 
incurred before the turnover was generated, that does not disconnect them from this turnover as the costs had 
been incurred with a view to achieving this turnover. Therefore, the Commission considered that the approach 
taken was accurate. The claim was thus rejected. 
(46)  
After provisional and after definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group claimed that the Commission should have 
reclassified sales of one product type through the related converter as the final customer had been invoiced 
a different product type than the one he actually received. With regard to this issue, the Commission found 
during the on spot verification that the related converter purchased from Hansol group some quantity of jumbo 
rolls containing the developer Bisphenol-S but this product had been subsequently resold to an unrelated 
customer as containing the developer Bisphenol-A. The claim was duly verified and the following is noted. First, 
the two products are clearly different product types which have a different cost of production and are sold on the 
Korean domestic market at different prices. Second, the fact that the related converter, in its invoicing, has sold 
the product as a different product type on the Union market is, as such, not a valid reason for disregarding the 
actual product specifications for the purpose of price comparison. The party had not provided any evidence that 
the misleading product description at the resale stage also affected its selling price. Consequently, the claim was 
rejected. 
2.3. Comparison 
(47)  
Where justified by the need to ensure a fair comparison, the Commission adjusted the normal value and/or the 
export price for differences affecting prices and price comparability, in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic 
Regulation. 
(48)  
Following the comments of the Hansol Group after provisional disclosure, a claim concerning the calculation 
method and application of the conversion costs was accepted. This correction resulted also in the identification 
of a similar methodological error with regard to the deduction of certain transport cost allowances, which was 
thus corrected. Furthermore, a clerical calculation error was corrected subsequent to the Hansol Group's 
comment. Finally, the Hansol Group also claimed that a number of allowances (related to credit costs and duty 
drawback) should have been granted and the methodology for calculating the freight costs in the country 
concerned should be revised by applying the allocation method provided by the Hansol Group. The Commission 
also accepted these claims and adjusted the normal value and/or export price calculations accordingly. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/10 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
2.4. Dumping margin 
2.4.1. Weighting of the dumping margins 
(49)  
As explained in recital (46) of the provisional Regulation, the provisional dumping margin established for the 
Hansol Group was a weighted average of the dumping margins established for the sales of jumbo rolls (margin of 
0,5 % - 5 % with a weight of 15 % - 25 %) and the sales of small rolls (margin of 10 % - 15 % with a weight of 
75 % - 85 %). This weighting was based on the Hansol Group's Union sales volume to related and unrelated 
customers during the investigation period. 
(50)  
Following provisional and definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group claimed that there was no legal basis to apply 
such weighting and that the weighting was based on unsubstantiated assumptions. This claim was rejected, as the 
weighting was based on the imported volumes of the product concerned during the investigation period as 
reported by the Hansol Group. The Commission considers that it is appropriate to adjust the weight of the 
dumping margin established for the sales to related parties (for subsequent resale as small roll to unrelated 
customers) to its actual weight as it was at Union frontier level during the investigation period. 
(51)  
The Hansol Group also contested the fact that the Commission constructed the CIF price used as denominator 
for those sales that were first converted by related parties in the Union into small rolls before being sold to 
unrelated users. It proposed that the Commission should use the average reported transfer CIF price of jumbo 
rolls or a calculated average CIF value per tonne on the basis of the direct sales of the Hansol Group to unrelated 
customers for those sales. Alternatively, if the Commission would not use one of the above methods, Hansol 
Group invited the Commission to apply an anti-dumping duty in the form of a specific amount per tonne instead 
of an ad valorem duty. The party argued that a duty expressed in the form of a specific amount per tonne would 
properly address its concerns that the ad valorem anti-dumping duty collected would allegedly exceed the 
amount of dumping found. 
(52)  
As concerns the latter argument, this is specifically addressed and accepted under recital (127) and (128) below. 
Therefore, the Commission does not need to take a position on the two options for alternative CIF values 
proposed by the Hansol Group as they become without object. 
(53)  
Further to the definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group contested the deduction of credit costs in the calculation of 
the constructed CIF value. This claim could be accepted. Furthermore, the CIF price used as a denominator was 
affected by the changes described in recital (41) to (42) above. 
(54)  
Taking into account the changes in the establishment of the export price, normal value and CIF price, as set out 
in recital (41), (42), (48) and (53) above and confirming the other findings in recitals (25) to (47) of the 
provisional Regulation, the definitive weighted average dumping margin of the Hansol Group, expressed as 
a percentage of the CIF Union frontier price, duty unpaid, was 10,3 %. As described in recitals (49) and (50) of 
the provisional Regulation, the residual dumping margin was set at the same level. 
3. INJURY 
3.1. Introduction 
(55)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the situation of the Union industry did not deteriorate because a number of 
injury indicators developed positively or were stable. This claim was already dismissed in recitals (95) to (96) of 
the provisional Regulation and is hereby definitively rejected. 
(56)  
In order to conclude that there is material injury, it is not necessary that the injury analysis shows that every 
single indicator points to an injurious situation. Indeed, pursuant to Article 3(5) of the basic Regulation, one or 
several of the relevant injury factors cannot necessarily give a decisive guidance. In this case, the injury found is 
material. This is illustrated in particular by the level of profitability, the price-related indicators and the Union 
industry's market share. All sampled producers experienced a strong linear decrease in profits and cash flows that 
coincided in time with the surge of imports from the Republic of Korea. In addition, the Union industry sales 
volume on the Union market remained relatively stable, but since this occurred in the context of a significant 
3.5.2017 
L 114/11 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
increase in the Union consumption (+ 15 %), the Union producers' market share was actually declining. Even if 
some injury factors such as capacity utilisation, employment, labour costs and investments could not give 
decisive guidance about the injurious situation of the Union producers, they did not contradict nor preclude the 
finding of material injury. 
(57)  
The specific arguments raised by the Hansol Group on particular injury indicators are addressed in detail in the 
rest of this Section. 
3.2. Definition of the Union industry and Union production 
(58)  
In the absence of any comments with respect to the definition of the Union industry and Union production, the 
conclusions set out in recitals (51) and (52) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.3. Union consumption 
(59)  
In the absence of any comments with respect to the Union consumption, the conclusions set out in recitals (53) 
to (55) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.4. Imports from the country concerned 
3.4.1. Volume and market share of the imports from the country concerned 
(60)  
The volume of imports from the country concerned during the investigation period was well above negligible 
levels (1). 
(61)  
In the absence of any comments with respect to the volume and market share of the imports from the country 
concerned, the conclusions set out in recitals (56) to (58) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.4.2. Price of the imports from the country concerned and price undercutting 
(62)  
The Hansol Group deemed the 8,1 % undercutting margin provisionally established not significant due to the 
limited volume of imports (13,6 % of Union consumption). The party claimed that the WTO Panel report on 
DRAM Chips (2) considers that ‘significant’ means important, major, consequential, more than just a nominal/ 
marginal movement. It also quotes two cases (Dense sodium carbonate (3) and Certain laser optical reading systems (4)) 
where the Commission considered that the undercutting margin was limited. 
(63)  
The Commission dismissed the Hansol Group's claims on the following grounds. First, even if in Dense sodium 
carbonate the Commission regarded a 6 % undercutting margin as not significant, it is noted that the market share 
of imports in that case was much lower (3,2 % before 1983; 1,4 % afterwards) than in the current case. Second, 
the Certain laser optical reading systems decision concerned mainly non-homogenous products with a great variety 
of features and technical differences and subject to rapid technological development, which is not the case of 
LWTP products. Last but not least, the Commission considered that for LWTP an 8,1 % undercutting margin was 
significant given that the level of dumped imports was important and that it sharply increased during the period 
considered. As indicated in recital (67) below, the established definitive undercutting margin was even higher 
than the provisional one, which also rebuts the argument that the margin had to be considered as limited. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/12 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Article 5(7) of the Basic Regulation sets the bar for ‘negligibility’ at 1 % market share, unless the exporting countries collectively account 
for at least 3 % of Union consumption. 
(2) WTO Panel Report, European Communities — Countervailing measures on Dynamic Random Access Memory Chips from Korea, 
WT/DS299/R, 3.8.2015. 
(3) Commission Decision 90/507/EEC of 7 September 1990 terminating the review of the anti-dumping measures concerning dense 
sodium carbonate originating in the United States of America (OJ L 283, 16.10.1990, p. 38). 
(4) Commission Decision 1999/55/EC of 21 December 1998 terminating the anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of certain laser 
optical reading systems, and the main constituent elements thereof, for use in motor vehicles, originating in Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the 
People's Republic of China and Taiwan (OJ L 18, 23.1.1999, p. 62). 
(64)  
The Hansol Group's claim that the undercutting calculation was illegal was rejected on similar grounds as those 
stated in Section 6.1 below. 
(65)  
In order to follow the same methodology as the dumping calculation, at definitive stage it was decided to 
calculate price undercutting by applying the same weighting as in Section 2.4.1 of this Regulation. The 
undercutting margin established for the Hansol Group was a weighted average of the margins established for the 
sales of jumbo rolls (margin of – 5 % - 0 % with a weight of 15 % - 25 %) and the sales of small rolls (margin of 
10 % - 20 % with a weight of 75 % - 85 %). This approach and the corrections explained in Section 2 above 
entailed a revision of the undercutting margin provisionally established. 
(66)  
Following definitive disclosure, the Hansol group claimed that the Commission did not draw the consequences 
from the negative undercutting margin found for one part of the sales and thereby violated Articles 3(2) and 3(3) 
of the basic Regulation. This claim was however rejected since the Commission made its conclusions on the basis 
of the overall undercutting margin, in line with its normal practice. 
(67)  
The definitive undercutting margin amounts to 9,4 %. 
(68)  
In the absence of any further comments with respect to the price of the imports from the country concerned, 
and with the exception of the undercutting margin, as explained in the recitals above, the conclusions set out in 
recitals (59) to (64) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.5. Economic situation of the Union industry 
3.5.1. Macroeconomic indicators 
3.5.1.1. Production, production capacity and capacity utilisation 
(69)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the situation of the Union industry did not deteriorate because, except for one 
company, the production results were impressive and some Union producers increased their production capacity 
and capacity utilisation. It also claimed that capacity utilisation was close to full capacity. 
(70)  
However, as regards production, recital (70) of the provisional Regulation showed that the Union industry's 
production volume decreased overall by one per cent. This negative trend is consistent with the finding that the 
industry was in an injurious state, given the high fixed costs it incurs. This overall finding cannot be undermined 
by the situation of some individual producers. In any event, the substantial increase in the production output of 
one non-sampled producer was only the mathematical result of the restart of operations that had been 
temporarily halted, as explained in recital (71) of the provisional Regulation. Furthermore, one producer was 
phasing out LWTP production. This took place in the context of an increasing Union consumption during the 
period considered (+ 15 %). In past cases, such as in Certain candles (1), the Commission found injury in the 
presence of an increase in production (which is not the case in LWTP), where such increase was lower than the 
increase in Union consumption. 
(71)  
As to production capacity, it is not correct that, as the party claimed all Union producers increased their 
production capacity, except for one company. The Union producer mentioned in recital (71) of the provisional 
Regulation did not increase its production capacity as such. It simply restarted a production facility that was not 
available for use in 2012, hence not considered as existing capacity that year. In addition, recital (70) of the 
provisional Regulation highlights the difficulties experienced by one sampled company as regards production. 
(72)  
As to the overall capacity utilisation, Table 4 of the provisional Regulation does not show an increase but a drop 
in capacity utilisation within the Union industry during the period considered. The substantial increase by one 
producer of its capacity utilisation was the result of the restart of operations after the halt stated in recital (71) of 
the provisional Regulation. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/13 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1130/2008 of 14 November 2008 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain 
candles, tapers and the like originating in the People`s Republic of China (OJ L 306, 15.11.2008, p. 22). 
(73)  
Furthermore, even though a 92 % capacity utilisation may indeed seem high, it is considered that an 8 % gap 
between capacity and actual utilisation, especially in a high fixed costs industry, is not insignificant. 
LWTP producers have to maintain a constant order book, keep selling and producing in order to avoid idle time 
on their production lines. A paper producer would prefer selling a product at a lower price, rather than 
producing less, as idle machines would likely cause even greater injury. Given the highly capital-intensive nature 
of the paper industry and the often limited pricing scope when selling, high utilisation rates are essential to prof­
itability. Thus, marginal shifts in utilisation rates can make or break a firm. As to the 8 % gap, it represents 
32 240 tonnes of LWTP production, which is more than the Hansol Group's import volumes in 2015. In 
addition, Union producers have multi-purpose equipment with ‘swing capacity’ and can easily offer more 
capacity, as highlighted in recital (125) of the provisional Regulation. However the ‘swing capacity’ cannot be 
used in a market where dumping practices exist. 
(74)  
Consequently, the above claims were rejected, and, in the absence of other comments, the conclusions set out in 
recitals (69) to (72) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.5.1.2. Sales volume and market share 
(75)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the situation of the Union industry did not deteriorate because i) Union 
producers increased their sales in the Union and ii) decided to reduce sales of the product concerned to the 
Union market in order to concentrate their efforts on third country markets. 
(76)  
The above claims were rejected since, even if the Union industry sales volume on the Union market overall 
increased by 1 % during the period considered, Union producers could not reap full benefits of the increase in 
Union consumption (+ 15 %). This was translated into a substantial loss of market shares. As to the claim 
regarding the reduction of sales onto the Union market, it is in contradiction with the first part of the claim. 
(77)  
In the absence of other comments, the conclusions set out in recitals (73) to (75) of the provisional Regulation 
were confirmed. 
3.5.1.3. Employment, labour costs and productivity 
(78)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the situation of the Union industry did not deteriorate because Table 6 of the 
provisional Regulation summarizes the good performance of the Union industry with reference to employment. 
The party stated as well that there was no inflation which could explain an increase in labour costs. 
(79)  
As to employment, the Commission did not find that the Union industry was performing well. As highlighted in 
the provisional Regulation, in contrast it found that the employment level went down by 1 %. According to the 
file for inspection by interested parties, the employment level increased significantly for two of the Union 
producers. However, given the size of these producers, this translates into few jobs in absolute terms and into an 
overall decrease for the Union industry as a whole. In any case, bearing in mind that in this specific sector the 
employment level follows closely production, employment is not considered to be an indicator giving decisive 
guidance about the injurious situation of the Union producers. 
(80)  
Following definitive disclosure, the Hansol Group claimed that the workforce from two Union producers should 
be excluded from Table 6 of the provisional Regulation because of their specific situation. This claim was rejected 
because no justification was provided in order to allow the Commission to depart from its normal practice as 
regards its analysis of macroeconomic injury indicators. 
(81)  
As far as labour costs are concerned, recital (86) of the provisional Regulation must be interpreted in the sense 
that the increase in labour costs did not seem too high in light of the annual inflation rates. 
(82)  
Accordingly, the above claims were rejected, and, in the absence of other comments, the conclusions set out in 
(77) to (79) and (85) to (86) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/14 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
3.5.1.4. Prices and factors affecting prices 
(83)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the prices in the Union by the Union producers should be further investigated. 
This party put into question the absence of price increases by Union producers during the investigation period 
based on the allegation that some Union producers increased their sales prices. The Hansol Group also stated that 
the sale price decrease that took place between 2013 and 2014 was caused by the fact that one Union producer 
flooded the Union market with goods that it could not sell in the United States of America (‘USA’). 
(84)  
The above claims were rejected. As regards the first claim, the fact that some producers had announced a series 
of price increases did not mean that all the increases materialised. The party's claim is based on price increases 
for Union industry sales to its related companies, which only represent a minor part of the Union consumption. 
According to Table 7 of the provisional Regulation, which is based on verified figures, there was not an overall 
increase in prices in the Union. Last but not least, the drop in sale prices between 2013 and 2014 coincides in 
time with the biggest decrease of import prices from the Republic of Korea according to Table 3 of the 
provisional Regulation. 
(85)  
Concerning the second claim, Table 5 of the provisional Regulation (sales volume on the Union market by the 
Union industry) does not show any sign of the alleged flood. Between 2013 and 2014 the index went from 101 
to 97. 
(86)  
In the absence of other comments, the conclusions set out in (82) to (84) of the provisional Regulation were 
confirmed. 
3.5.1.5. Inventories 
(87)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the situation of the Union industry did not deteriorate because inventory levels 
decreased both in absolute and relative terms, thus the Union industry found no difficulty in selling its output. 
(88)  
The above claims were rejected because, as stated in recital (88) of the provisional Regulation, in general the like 
product is produced on the basis of specific orders of the users. Hence, stocks are not considered to be an 
important injury indicator for this type of industry because they follow production and during the period 
considered they consistently remained not bigger than the production of one month. 
(89)  
In the absence of other comments, the conclusions set out in (87) to (88) of the provisional Regulation were 
confirmed. 
3.5.1.6. Profitability and investments 
(90)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the situation of the Union industry did not deteriorate because its investments 
more than doubled during the investigation period. In its view, Table 10 of the provisional Regulation and 
evidence on the record do not support the statement in recital (93) of the provisional Regulation that the 
sampled producers kept their level of investment to the amounts absolutely necessary to keep on running. It also 
claimed that two sampled Union producers made major investments in 2014. 
(91)  
The above claims were however rejected since, despite the fact that the investments doubled, the absolute level of 
investment remained limited, in particular considering the fact that, for example, the value of a new production 
line of LWTP is estimated at 120 Million EUR. During the period considered, as pointed in recital (119) of the 
provisional Regulation, the Union industry postponed some investments due to shrinking profits. 
(92)  
The same party also asked for a reassessment of the Union industry's profitability because the problems of one 
sampled Union producer allegedly derived from factors not related to dumped imports but, in particular, from 
huge costs related to the closure of two mills, and, in addition, as a result of another company's provisions to 
cover future payments of anti-dumping duties in the USA. It added that any bias concerning the market strategies 
undertaken by the other two sampled companies on different geographical markets should be eliminated and 
alleged that, in overall, the same two companies generated substantial profits during the investigation period. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/15 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(93)  
The Commission considered that there is no need for a reassessment of the Union industry's profitability because 
all exceptional costs alleged were already isolated and excluded from the establishment of the profitability showed 
at provisional stage. Also, as stated in recital (90) of the provisional Regulation, the Commission established the 
profitability of the sampled Union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product 
to unrelated customers in the Union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales, i.e. profitability in non-Union 
markets was put aside. Therefore, those claims were rejected. 
(94)  
In the absence of other comments, the conclusions set out in recitals (89) to (91) and, as regards investments, in 
recital (93) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.5.1.7. Magnitude of the dumping margin, growth, cash flow, return on investments and ability to raise capital 
(95)  
In the absence of comments regarding magnitude of the dumping margin, growth, cash flow, return on 
investments and ability to raise capital, the conclusions set out in recitals (76), (80) to (81), (92), (93) as regards 
return on investments and (94) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
3.5.2. Conclusion on injury 
(96)  
On the basis of the analysis of the comments summarized in recitals (55) to (95) above, the conclusions set out 
in recitals (95) to (98) of the provisional Regulation were hereby confirmed. 
4. CAUSATION 
(97)  
The Hansol Group claimed that the injury could not be attributed to the imports of dumped imports from the 
country concerned but to: the impact of the USA anti-dumping measure on one sampled Union producer; the 
impact of manufacturing costs together with exchange rates; and the impact of the price of phenol-free LWTP. 
Most of the arguments were a reiteration of those already brought forward at the provisional stage. They are all 
addressed in recitals (98) to (101) below. 
(98)  
As to the USA anti-dumping measure, the Commission noted that in recital (109) of the provisional Regulation it 
was acknowledged that there was some impact on the Union producer in question. Even if such impact was not 
confined to that company, as explained in recital (110) of the provisional Regulation, the overall impact was 
almost inexistent for the Union industry as a whole during the investigation period. In recital (110) of the 
provisional Regulation it was established that the USA imposed high duties on one Union producer only, but that 
these duties were lifted in 2015 and that the sampled Union producer managed to partially compensate by 
increasing exports to other markets. Whether the sampled Union producer in question managed to fully 
compensate lost sales in the USA and recover is irrelevant since those circumstances would have no effect on 
most of the data relating to that Union producer, as stated in recital (109) of the provisional Regulation. Contrary 
to what the Hansol Group suggests, there was not a flood of LWTP originating in the Union at the time when 
USA high duties were in place (this claim is further rebutted in recital (85) above) or an increase of sales prices in 
2015 (as shown in Tables 3 and 7 of the provisional Regulation). On the basis of the above and of the findings at 
provisional stage, it was concluded that the USA anti-dumping measures analysed did not lead to a decrease in 
prices and profitability on the Union market. 
(99)  
As to manufacturing costs, the party first focused only on the period 2014-2015. After definitive disclosure, it 
extended the claim to the whole period under investigation and submitted that the increase in raw material 
prices, together with the downward trend of the Euro exchange rate particularly affected the Union industry. It 
was however established that, during the period considered, the loss in profitability was due to the lack of 
correlation between costs (+ 3 %) and prices (– 11 %), the drop in prices being higher than the cost increases. On 
the basis of the above and of the findings at provisional stage, it was concluded that the increase in costs did not 
break the causal link between material injury and dumped imports form the Republic of Korea. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/16 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(100)  As regards the impact of the price of phenol-free LWTP, the alleged higher purchase prices of some companies 
related to the exporting producer do not contradict the overall finding in recital (113) of the provisional 
Regulation that ‘over the period considered the unit sales prices of phenol-free LWTP dropped less than the unit 
sales prices of phenol-containing LWTP’. Those companies represent a minor share of Union consumption. On 
the basis of the above and of the findings at provisional stage, it was concluded that the Union industry's price 
depression could not be attributed to the alleged price decrease of phenol-free LWTP. 
(101)  The Hansol Group claimed that even if none of the alleged factors alone had decisive influence, the Commission 
should further investigate actual causes of alleged injury, including their aggregated effect. This claim was 
however rejected, since the Commission already made such a combined assessment in recital (121) of the 
provisional Regulation, and no new element was brought forward after the imposition of the provisional 
measures. 
(102)  On the basis of the above and in the absence of any other comments, the conclusions set out in recitals (99) 
to (121) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
5. UNION INTEREST 
5.1. Interest of the Union industry 
(103)  The complainant suggested the existence of a threat of further injury to Union producers in light of the Hansol 
Group's announcement to significantly increase its thermal paper capacity by 2019. Given the findings on 
material injury, the Commission did not carry out a threat of injury analysis. 
(104)  In the absence of any comments regarding the interest of the Union industry, the conclusion set out in 
recitals (123) to (128) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
5.2. Interest of other interested parties 
(105)  The Government of Korea reiterated its claim stated in recital (132) of the provisional Regulation without 
providing any additional evidence. Such claim was already dismissed at provisional stage. 
(106)  The Government of Korea also claimed that measures are not in the Union interest on the grounds that many 
European converters and importers expressed their objections at the hearing in September 2016 (see recital (5) of 
the provisional Regulation), that measures will negatively affect Hansol Group's subsidiary converters, which 
comprise the downstream sector in the LWTP industry, and that Union producers are large companies, whereas 
the Hansol Group's subsidiary converters are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises (‘SMEs’) without much 
power to influence prices. 
(107)  The above claims were rejected. The investigation did not find that there is a majority of converters and 
importers in the Union against measures, as further developed in recital (109) below. Moreover, it was not 
possible to conclude to what extent measures would negatively affect Hansol Group's subsidiaries in the Union, 
also bearing in mind that the Hansol Group's itself highlighted that one of such subsidiaries was having negative 
results due to bad management. As to the size of the Hansol Group's subsidiary converters, it is noted that 
ultimately they belong to a large group. Since the Hansol Group's itself acknowledged the unwillingness of final 
customers to accept price increases, it is concluded that customers have bargaining power in price negotiations. 
(108)  The Hansol Group claimed that the Union downstream industries are almost unanimously against the imposition 
of measures and that, according to the files open for inspection by interested parties, at least 36 unrelated 
converters and end-users expressed their strong opposition to measures. Following definitive disclosure, the party 
claimed that the Commission had neglected the fact that the majority of the cooperating Union downstream 
converting and user industry opposed the imposition of measures. It was claimed that the fact that not all Union 
downstream industries expressed their opposition, or the fact that many of them did not reiterate their point of 
view following the provisional disclosure, would not undermine their opposition. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/17 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(109)  The above claims were rejected. Recital (129) of the provisional Regulation takes stock of the limited cooperation 
of some parties. Many Union downstream industries remained silent during the investigation and no downstream 
industry made any representation following provisional or definitive disclosure. This silence could not be 
interpreted as opposing the measures, but as ‘unknown position’. As mentioned under recital (130) of the 
provisional Regulation, in terms of purchase volume of LWTP, the converters that came forward and expressed to 
be in favour of measures weigh more than the ones that did not express views or were opposing the measures. 
After the additional final disclosure an additional converter expressed to be in favour of the measures. Also the 
Confederation of European Paper Industries, which ultimately represents many downstream industries, expressed 
to be in favour of the measures both at initial and definitive stage. As to the files available to interested parties 
for access, they show that around one third of the unrelated converters and end-users counted in the recital 
above opposed to measures at some point of the proceeding before provisional disclosure. 
(110)  The Hansol Group claimed that the measures are against the interest of European businesses because the Union 
market can be defined as a duopoly/oligopoly and competition should be promoted, as there are no alternative 
sources of supply, the Union producers lack competitive infrastructure and would not be able to efficiently switch 
production to LWTP, because it is highly unlikely that the smaller Union producer would decide to reverse 
a business decision that resulted in increased profitability and because European SMEs that are active in the 
downstream industry will face limited availability of supply combined with unreasonable prices which will 
severely threaten their survival. Moreover, the measures would eliminate competition and entail a loss of 
employment for users. 
(111)  The above claims were rejected. The mere existence of few producers in the Union is irrelevant and, as pointed 
out in recital (115) of the provisional Regulation, there is no evidence on file of any anti-competitive practices. 
According to recital (131) of the provisional Regulation, there are several sources of supply in the Union. 
Additional alternatives exist: the Hansol Group's imports (at fair prices) and minor imports from other third 
countries. The claim on lack of competitive infrastructure is contradicted, inter alia, by the Hansol Group's 
submission dated 8 December 2016, which describes the Union industry as ‘high-performing’. As to the smaller 
Union producer, it is open to reverse to decision if there are better prospects for LWTP. As far as the downstream 
industry is concerned, it is considered that it will benefit from the Union industry's significant capacity (as stated 
in recital (73), the various sources of supply above-mentioned and from restored competition in the Union 
market. 
(112)  The Hansol Group also alleged that measures would be against the interest of consumers, who will be prevented 
from having access to reasonably priced LWTP. In the absence of any substantive evidence supporting this claim, 
this allegation was dismissed. 
(113)  The Hansol Group further alleged that measures would entail, on top of a flood of Chinese small rolls, the 
creation of new converting mills around the Union border with free access to raw material, thus the closure of 
many converters in the Union. In the absence of any substantive evidence supporting this claim, this allegation 
was dismissed. 
(114)  In the absence of any other comments regarding the interest of other interested parties, the conclusion set out in 
recitals (129) to (134) of the provisional Regulation were confirmed. 
5.3. Other arguments 
(115)  Hansol Group claimed that a select group of European businesses pursue an artificial increase of their profits by 
seeking the Commission to abuse the anti-dumping instrument. 
(116)  The above claim was not further substantiated. The Commission underlined that the investigation was conducted 
within the applicable legal framework with the highest standards for neutrality and transparency. 
5.4. Conclusion on Union interest 
(117)  In the absence of any other comments concerning the Union interest, the conclusion reached in recital (135) of 
the provisional Regulation was confirmed. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/18 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
6. DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 
6.1. Injury elimination level 
(118)  Following provisional disclosure, no parties made comments on the target profit provisionally used for 
calculating underselling. No parties made comments on the target profit at definitive stage, either. 
(119)  The Hansol Group challenged the application by the Commission of Article 2(9) for the injury calculations, 
stating that Article 2(9) appears under the dumping provisions of the basic Regulation and could not be used by 
analogy for calculating the injury margin. The party contested that the calculation is largely based on adjusted 
sales transaction for small rolls, a different product not subject to the investigation. According to the Hansol 
Group, there is no point of competition between the sales of small rolls into the Union by its related converters 
and the sales of jumbo rolls by the Union industry and, by calculating the injury margin on the basis of sales 
prices of a product which is not the like product within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the basic Regulation, the 
Commission violated Article 3(3) of the basic Regulation. The party backed its point in terms of causal link by 
resorting to Article 3(6) of the Basic Regulation, the WTO Appellate Body Report China — GOES (1) and the 
WTO Panel Report China — X-ray (2). 
(120)  The purpose of calculating an injury margin is to determine whether imposing a lower duty rate (than the one 
based on the dumping margin) to the export price of the dumped imports would be sufficient to remove the 
injury caused by the dumped imports. This assessment should be based on the export price at the Union frontier 
level which is considered to be a level comparable to the Union industry ex-works price. In the case of export 
sales via related importers, by analogy with the approach followed for the dumping margin calculations, the 
export price was constructed on the basis of the resale price to the first independent customer duly adjusted 
pursuant to Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation. As the export price is an indispensable element in the injury 
margin calculation, and as this Article is the only Article in the basic Regulation which gives guidance on the 
construction of the export price, the application of this Article by analogy is justified. 
(121)  The Commission considered that the establishment of the relevant import price for undercutting and underselling 
calculations should not be influenced by the fact whether the exports are made to related or independent 
operators in the Union. The methodology followed by the Commission ensured that both circumstances receive 
equal treatment. 
(122)  The injury margin calculation should normally be based on a comparison of prices at the level where 
competition in the EU takes place. In this case, only a small portion of the export sales of the product concerned 
are done to unrelated customers in the EU. The vast majority of the sales of the product concerned are done to 
related converters in the Union which convert the products into small rolls. In these circumstances, most of the 
competition took place at the level of the related converters. By analogy with the dumping calculations, these 
sales prices could not be considered reliable for the purpose of an objective price comparison. Consequently, 
import prices for the product concerned had to be constructed. Section 2.2 above further develops the reasons 
why small rolls could not be ignored in the calculations and why, for certain transactions, it was necessary to 
construct export prices. 
(123)  To the extent the Commission confirmed its approach to consider small rolls for the purpose of the calculations, 
the references to Articles 3(3) and 3(6) of the basic Regulation, the WTO Appellate Body Report China — GOES 
and the WTO Panel Report China — X-ray are irrelevant. 
(124)  For the above reasons, the Commission considered that the approach followed was accurate and rejected the 
claims. 
(125)  In order to follow the same methodology as the dumping calculation, at definitive stage it was decided to 
calculate the injury margin by applying the same weighting as in Section 2.4.1 of this Regulation. This approach 
and the corrections explained in Section 2 above entailed a revision of the injury margin provisionally 
established. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/19 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) Appellate Body Report, China — GOES, WT/DS414/AB/R, dated 18 October 2012, para. 128. 
(2) Panel Report, China — X-ray, WT/DS425/R, dated 26 February 2013, para. 7.50. 
(126)  The definitive injury margin thus established amounted to 37,0 %. 
6.2. Form of the measures 
(127)  It is recalled that most sales of the Hansol Group are through related parties for conversion into small rolls. 
Following final disclosure, the Hansol Group contested the fact that the Commission had constructed the CIF 
price used as denominator for those sales (see recital (51) above). In this regard it submitted, inter alia, that the 
CIF price the Commission had provisionally used as a denominator in the dumping calculation for those sales 
would result in a duty amount higher than the amount of dumping found. To remedy this alleged distortion, the 
Hansol Group proposed that the Commission should apply an anti-dumping duty in the form of a specific 
amount per tonne instead of an ad valorem duty. 
(128) The claim was duly analysed and in view of the specific circumstances of this case in relation to the determina­
tion of a reliable CIF price for these sales, the Commission concluded that it would be more appropriate to use 
a form of duty that does not require a reliable CIF price to be established. Therefore, the Commission decided 
that the anti-dumping duty should be imposed as a fixed amount per tonne in euro per tonne net instead of an 
ad valorem duty as provisionally imposed. 
6.3. Definitive measures 
(129)  Taking into account the issues mentioned in the section above, the anti-dumping duty rates, expressed on the CIF 
Union border price, customs duty unpaid, should be based on the dumping margin and be as follows: 
Country 
Company 
Definitive 
dumping 
margin (%) 
Definitive 
injury margin 
(%) 
Definitive duty 
rate (%) 
Definitive fixed 
duty rate — 
EUR per tonne 
The Republic 
of Korea 
Hansol Group (Hansol Pa­
per Co., Ltd and Hansol 
Artone Paper Co., Ltd) 
10,3 
37,0 
10,3 
104,46 
All other companies 
10,3 
37,0 
10,3 
104,46  
(130)  Subsequent to the additional final disclosure, the Hansol Group submitted that the specific duty calculated and 
reported in the last column of the above table would reflect a dumping amount in excess of that found in the 
investigation. However, the calculation it had conducted to arrive at such conclusion was erroneous as it did not 
account for the weighting as described in recital (46) of the provisional Regulation and recital (49) above. The 
claim was therefore rejected. 
(131)  The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the 
findings of the present investigation. 
(132)  As also explained in recital (50) of the provisional Regulation, the level of cooperation in this case was high, as 
the imports of the cooperating exporting producers constituted the total exports to the Union during the investi­
gation period. Therefore, the residual anti-dumping duty was based at the level of the cooperating company. 
(133)  To ensure a proper enforcement of the anti-dumping duties, the anti-dumping duty for all other companies 
should apply not only to the non-cooperating exporting producers in this investigation, but also to the producers 
which did not have exports to the Union during the investigation period. 
3.5.2017 
L 114/20 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
6.4. Definitive collection of the provisional duties 
(134)  In view of the dumping margins found and given the level of the injury caused to the Union industry, 
the amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty, imposed by the provisional Regulation, 
should be definitively collected. The amounts secured in excess of the definitive duty rate determined pursuant to 
Article 1(2) of this Regulation should be released. 
(135)  The Committee established by Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 did not deliver an opinion, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is imposed on imports of certain lightweight thermal paper weighing 65 g/m2 or 
less; in rolls of a width of 20 cm or more, a weight of the roll (including the paper) of 50 kg or more and a diameter of 
the roll (including the paper) of 40 cm or more (‘jumbo rolls’); with or without a base coat on one or both sides; coated 
with a thermos-sensitive substance on one or both sides; and with or without a top coat, originating in the Republic of 
Korea, currently falling within CN codes ex 4809 90 00, ex 4811 90 00, ex 4816 90 00 and ex 4823 90 85 (TARIC 
codes: 4809 90 00 10, 4811 90 00 10, 4816 90 00 10, 4823 90 85 20) 
2.
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the product described in paragraph 1 shall be a fixed 
amount of EUR 104,46 per tonne net. 
3.
Unless otherwise specified, the provisions in force concerning customs duties shall apply. 
Article 2 
The amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duties pursuant to Implementing Regulation (EU) 
2016/2005 shall be definitively collected. The amounts secured in excess of the rate of the duty contained in 
Article 1(2) above shall be released. 
Article 3 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 2 May 2017. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Jean-Claude JUNCKER  
3.5.2017 
L 114/21 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
