COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2021/591
of 12 April 2021
entering a name in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical 
indications (‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ (PDO))
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on 
quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs (1), and in particular Article 52(3)(b) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)
Pursuant to Article 50(2)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, the application from Cyprus to register the name 
‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ as Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) identifying a product whose geographical 
area corresponds to the surface of Cyprus, was published in the Official Journal of the European Union (2).
(2)
The Commission received in total 17 notices of opposition, namely from Dairy Australia (Australia) on 21 October 
2015; Consortium for Common Food Names (United States) on 22 October 2015; the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom) on 23 October 2015; Milk and Oil Products Production and 
Marketing Cooperative Ltd. (Cyprus) on 26 October 2015; Hayvan Ureticileri ve Yetistiricileri Birligi (Cyprus) on 
26 October 2015; Fatma GARANTI (Cyprus) on 26 October 2015; Sut Imalatcilari Birligi (SUIB) (Cyprus) on 
26 October 2015; Cyprus Turkish Chamber of Industry (Cyprus) on 26 October 2015; Turkish Cypriot Chamber of 
Commerce (Cyprus), on 26 October 2015; Navimar Food Gida Imalati ve Gida (Turkey) on 26 October 2015; D.M 
Gida Maddeleri Pazarlama Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Sti (Turkey) on 26 October 2015; Avunduk Ithalat Ihracat Gida ve 
Zirai Aletler Sanayi Ticaret Ltd. (Turkey) on 26 October 2015; U.T.CO Trading Company – W.L.L. – (Kuwait) on 
27 October 2015; Dairy Companies Association of New Zealand (DCANZ) and New Zealand Specialist 
Cheesemakers Association (New Zealand) on 27 October 2015; Dr Nutrition (United Arab Emirates) on 27 October 
2015; FFF Fine Foods Pty Ltd (Australia) on 28 October 2015 and Finland on 3 November 2015.
(3)
The Commission forwarded these notices of opposition to Cyprus, with the exception of the notice of opposition of 
Finland and the notices from the six natural or legal persons resident or established in Cyprus. The notice of 
opposition sent by Finland was lodged with the Commission after the expiration of the deadline set out in Article 
51(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012. In accordance with that Article, natural or legal persons established or 
resident in the Member State from which the application was submitted are excluded from the opposition 
procedure as they already had the opportunity to participate in the national opposition procedure. In this specific 
case, the oppositions from the six natural or legal persons established or resident in Cyprus had been dismissed in 
the context of the national opposition procedure following an examination of the merits of the submitted grounds 
for opposition. Accordingly, neither the notices of opposition nor the subsequent reasoned statements of 
opposition from the six natural or legal persons established or resident in Cyprus are deemed admissible.
(4)
Nine reasoned statements of opposition were subsequently received by the Commission, namely from Dairy 
Companies Association of New Zealand (DCANZ) and New Zealand Specialist Cheesemakers Association (New 
Zealand) on 15 December 2015; Dairy Australia (Australia) on 17 December 2015; the United Kingdom on 
21 December 2015; Consortium for Common Food Names (United States) on 21 December 2015; Navimar Food 
Gida Imalati ve Gida (Turkey) on 21 December 2015; D.M Gida Maddeleri Pazarlama Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Sti 
(Turkey) on 21 December 2015; Avunduk Ithalat Ihracat Gida ve Zirai Aletler Sanayi Ticaret Ltd. (Turkey) on 
21 December 2015; U.T.CO Trading Company – W.L.L. – (Kuwait) on 21 December 2015 and FFF Fine Foods Pty 
(1) OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1.
(2) OJ C 246, 28.7.2015, p. 9.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 125/42                                                                                                                                         
13.4.2021  
Ltd (Australia) on 24 December 2015. The notice of opposition lodged by Dr Nutrition (United Arab Emirates) was 
not followed by a reasoned statement of opposition, therefore the opposition thereof is deemed to have been 
withdrawn.
(5)
After examining these reasoned statements of opposition and finding them admissible, the Commission invited all 
the interested parties, in accordance with Article 51(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, to engage in appropriate 
consultations in view of reaching an agreement.
(6)
Consultations were carried out between Cyprus and the nine admissible opponents within a period of 3 months. The 
deadline for the consultations between Cyprus and the United Kingdom was extended by one additional month at 
the request of Cyprus.
(7)
No agreement was reached within the designated timeframe in any of those nine opposition procedures. The 
information concerning the consultations carried out between Cyprus and the opponents was duly provided to the 
Commission. Therefore, the Commission should decide on registration taking into account the results of these 
consultations in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 52(3)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012.
(8)
The arguments of the opponents as set out in their reasoned statements of opposition and in the consultations 
carried out can be summarised as follows.
(9)
The product specification indicates that the conditions for registration as a PDO are satisfied because the product 
concerned is made with sheep and goat’s milk which comes from local breeds – the Chios sheep and the Damascus 
goat – and their crosses that have adapted to the island’s climate. However, the Chios sheep and the Damascus goat 
were introduced in Cyprus in the 1950s and 1930s, respectively; additionally, there is no evidence of specific 
morphology or genetic or productive characteristics of such Cypriot sheep. The existence of a Cypriot type of Chios 
sheep is accordingly to be challenged. The relatively recent introduction of sheep and goats whose milk is reputed 
having a major role in determining the unique characteristics of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ would also be a 
reason to rebut the claimed antiquity (16th century) of the related tradition.
(10)
Animal feed is cited as a relevant factor in the application. However, the application does not specify how the feeding 
and grazing is uniquely connected with the Cyprus plants, taking into consideration that the geographical area of 
grazing encompasses the entire island. No evidence is given of the availability of these plants throughout the year 
and all over Cyprus. No evidence is given of the difference in the feeding among animals that are grazing all year 
round, animals of semi intensive farming and those of intensive farming. Further, no evidence is given that the 
cheese production level would be maintained while reducing the cow’s milk share in the raw materials. There would 
be insufficient evidence that the feed has a consistent impact on the quality or characteristics of the cheese produced.
(11)
As regards the human factor, even if Cyprus dairies may have established a specific ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ 
know-how, this does not confirm the existence of the required link between the characteristics of the product and 
the Cyprus geographical environment for the purposes of PDO registration, as such know-how and production 
methods may be replicated virtually everywhere.
(12)
The application does not indicate that ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ is the product of ‘authentic and unvarying local 
methods’ as this name has been applied to a diversity of cheeses made with methods and raw materials that have 
varied over time and which continue to evolve.
(13)
The product specification is alien to the product actually marketed: the majority of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ 
produced in Cyprus is made using varying proportions and types of milk, with a predominance of cow’s milk. 
There are indications that 95 % of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ produced in Cyprus would currently have an 
80-95 % cow’s milk content.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
13.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 125/43  
(14)
The product specification fails to respect the traditions of the whole of the geographical area indicated. The product 
specification concerns a traditional product made throughout the island of Cyprus, yet the application fails to 
include specific traditional characteristics of the cheese made by the producers of the Turkish Cypriot community. 
Thus, the product specification does not identify a product as actually marketed throughout the island. In particular, 
use of mint should be optional and raw milk should be allowed.
(15)
Several statements included in the product specification are not supported by scientific evidence, such as the claim 
that ovine and caprine milk is important for the taste of the cheese; the differentiation in morphology of the 
Cypriot type of Chios sheep; the fact that the low molecular weight of free fatty acids affects the taste, smell and 
aroma of the cheese; the fact that the endemic plants that are mentioned as feed for animals contain essential oils; 
whether terpene is present in the Sarcopoterium spinosum and in which quantity, how terpenes is transferred from 
ingestion of the Sarcopoterium spinosum to the milk and subsequently to the halloumi, the presence of Lactobacillus 
cypricasei in fresh ovine Halloumi and the impact of fresh or dry mint on the sensory characteristics.
(16)
The product specification designates the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and the Environment of the 
Republic of Cyprus as the sole competent authority for controls on compliance with the product specification in 
respect of the entire delimited geographical area. However, as that Ministry does not exercise effective control 
throughout the production area set out in the specification, a valid system for the verification of compliance with 
the product specification is not ensured.
(17)
The product specification does not refer to any delegated control body. Such failure is not remedied by the non- 
legally binding Common understanding on a temporary solution for ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’, to be implemented 
pending the reunification of Cyprus (‘the Common Understanding’), reached under the guidance of the President of 
the Commission on 16 July 2015, that refers to the appointment of the internationally accredited body Bureau 
Veritas in accordance with Article 39 of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 (which has in substance been replaced by 
Articles 28 and 29 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) on official 
controls) as the body in charge of the control tasks provided for by the former Regulation.
(18)
‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ is produced in Bulgaria, Germany and Greece. Outside the Union, it is produced in Australia, 
Canada, the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, several Middle Eastern countries (Iraq, Lebanon, Syria), New 
Zealand, Turkey and the United Kingdom. Entries and results in prestigious cheese contests confirm the well- 
established production of ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ in locations outside Cyprus. In the United Kingdom, for instance, the 
name ‘Halloumi’ is claimed to have been used for cheese produced since the 1980s, with an estimate of about 300 
tons per year. In addition, such products produced outside Cyprus and bearing the name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/ 
‘Hellim’ are marketed in a large number of Member States and third countries.
(19)
A range of registered trade marks include the term ‘Halloumi’ in Czechia, Germany, Greece, Australia, New Zealand 
and the United Kingdom. Trade marks referring to ‘Hellim’ also exist in Germany, Sweden and Turkey. Hence, the 
proposed PDO would conflict with existing names, trade marks and products and is accordingly liable to jeopardise 
them in case of registration. In particular, the said presence in the Union market of specific trade marks including the 
name ‘Halloumi’ should prevent the Commission from registering such name since Article 6(4) of Regulation (EU) 
No 1151/2012 provides that a name is not to be registered where, in the light of a trade mark’s reputation and 
renown and the length of time it has been used, that registration would be liable to mislead the consumer as to the 
true identity of the product.
(3) Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official 
activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant 
protection products, amending Regulations (EC) No 999/2001, (EC) No 396/2005, (EC) No 1069/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009, (EU) 
No 1151/2012, (EU) No 652/2014, (EU) 2016/429 and (EU) 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Council 
Regulations (EC) No 1/2005 and (EC) No 1099/2009 and Council Directives 98/58/EC, 1999/74/EC, 2007/43/EC, 2008/119/EC 
and 2008/120/EC, and repealing Regulations (EC) No 854/2004 and (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council, Council Directives 89/608/EEC, 89/662/EEC, 90/425/EEC, 91/496/EEC, 96/23/EC, 96/93/EC and 97/78/EC and Council 
Decision 92/438/EEC (Official Controls Regulation) (OJ L 95, 7.4.2017, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 125/44                                                                                                                                         
13.4.2021  
(20)
‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ is produced and marketed both inside and outside the Union. Standards for the production of 
‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ have been issued in Bahrain, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. The use of this name in the Union beyond 
the boundaries of Cyprus is well established. The fact that the name ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ is commonly used on cheese 
products which are not of Cypriot origin is a relevant piece of evidence which tends to show that it has become a 
generic term.
(21)
In addition, ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ standards issued by Cyprus did not refer to any particular sheep, goat or 
cattle breeds or cross-breeds. Consumers consider ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ as a type of product. The Canada Federal 
Court and the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM) (now the European Union Intellectual 
Property Office) are of the view that ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ is a generic type of cheese (4).
(22)
Consumers in the Union and in third countries, such as Australia and New Zealand, associate ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ 
with a cheese type that has a high melting point, allowing it to be grilled or fried, a rubbery ‘squeaky’ texture, and a 
salty taste. These taste, textural and functional properties of ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ are what make it unique for 
consumers, irrespective of the origin of the cheese, which is not relevant.
(23)
The Commission has assessed the arguments exposed in the reasoned statements of opposition in the light of 
Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, taking into account the results of the consultations carried out between the 
applicant and the opponents, and it has concluded that the name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ should be 
registered. The Commission considers in particular the following.
(24)
Regarding the morphology of eligible sheep and goat, it stems from the information contained in the single 
document that the Chios sheep and the Damascus goat, introduced in the 1950s and 1930s respectively, have 
acquired morphological and production characteristics that diverged from those of the populations of origin, 
following a long-standing national breeding programme. There are incidentally numerous commercial references 
available on the internet as to international trade ongoing for decades of ‘Cyprus Chios sheep’ and ‘Cyprus 
Damascus goat’, from Cyprus to 20 countries, referring to the international reputation gained by Cyprus in its 
successful selective breeding thereof.
(25)
Thus, the development of unique sheep and goat breeds used in production of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ as well 
as the development of the cheese itself does not negate the existence of origins of the product in the 16th century. In 
accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, a ‘designation of origin’ is a name which identifies a 
product: (a) originating in a specific place, region or, in exceptional cases, a country; (b) whose quality or 
characteristics are essentially or exclusively due to a particular geographical environment with its inherent natural 
and human factors; and (c) the production steps of which all take place in the defined geographical area. Therefore, 
to be registered as a PDO, it is sufficient that the name complies with those requirements. The production 
conditions of a given cheese may legitimately evolve gradually over time and are not required to remain unaltered 
for centuries.
(26)
Regarding the impact and availability of the feed, the single document indicates, inter alia, that the ‘local Cypriot 
vegetation consumed by the animals either fresh or dried, has a crucial effect on the quality of the milk and 
consequently the specific characteristics of the cheese (Papademas, 2000). The presence of the bacillus Lactobacillus 
cypricasei (lactobacillus from Cypriot cheese), which has been isolated only from Cypriot Halloumi, testifies to the 
link between the island’s microflora and the product (Lawson et al., 2001)’. Scientific surveys have been cited to 
demonstrate the link between the animal feed and the quality of the cheese made with the milk of the animals 
concerned. It has been shown, for example, that volatile compounds were detected in milk, originating from the 
plants used to feed the animals (Papademas et al. 2002). Moreover, based on other surveys, (Palmquist et al. 1993), 
the ratio of fat in milk, which is a crucial factor that affects the organoleptic characteristics of the cheese, depends 
on the diet of the animals. Based on another survey (Bugaud et al. 2001), the terpene content of milk is directly 
linked to the terpene content of the feed obtained by grazing.
(4) Decision in Opposition No B2152604, Decision in Opposition No B2318585, Decision in Opposition No B2190257, Decision in 
Opposition No B2191396, Decision in Opposition No B002124637.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
13.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 125/45  
(27)
Moreover, the grazing of plants which are endemic of Cyprus, such as thyme and Sarcopoterium spinosum, and the 
ingestion of these plants, lead to the presence of related aromatic characteristics in the final product.
(28)
Further, there are no provisions in Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 requiring that the delimited area should offer an 
absolute homogeneity, nor that a PDO should refer to fully standardised and absolutely uniform products. 
Therefore, the opponents’ claims that local plants having an impact on product specificities are not available all over 
Cyprus are not relevant.
(29)
The product specification of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ has not been altered as compared with the related 
legislative standard adopted by Cyprus in 1985. Therefore, a potential scarcity of raw material available for the 
production of this cheese would not per se render the prescriptions on milk percentage or feedstuffs included in the 
product specification unattainable. In addition, Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 does not require quantitative 
production thresholds. Notwithstanding the above, a transitional period has been granted by Cyprus to the 
operators not able to meet the product specification requirements, in order for them to fully align their production 
to the requirements in that respect, allowing them, under stringent conditions, to provisionally use a lower amount 
of sheep and goat’s milk.
(30)
Regarding the human factors and know-how related to the production of this cheese, there are numerous references 
showing that it has been produced in Cyprus since 1554. The single document indicates in that respect that 
‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ is considered traditional to Cyprus, since it has played a very important role in the life 
and diet of the island’s inhabitants, both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. Knowledge of the production process 
has been handed down from one generation to the next. Both its characteristic folded shape and its specific property 
of not melting at high temperatures are due to this traditional production process that has been passed down 
through the generations.
(31)
Given worldwide migration of Cypriot citizens over centuries, the specific methods used to produce this cheese 
might have been copied elsewhere, yet the production of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ is still inseparably and 
uniquely linked to the culinary culture of Cyprus.
(32)
The human factor cannot be considered as an isolated element. Human and natural factors are meant to interact, 
thus determining the specific final result.
(33)
Furthermore, Article 7(1)(e) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 does not require that the name to be registered refer 
to a product elaborated through centuries in an unvarying method. It merely requires the product specification to 
include the methods, if any, to obtain that specific product which are different from the standard methods used to 
obtain that kind of product. Therefore, the eligibility of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ may not be challenged on the 
ground that the production methods have not remained absolutely immutable.
(34)
Other allegations in opponents’ claims relate to the discrepancy between the product described in the product 
specification and the one actually produced as regards the respective proportion of sheep, goat’s and cow’s milk and 
certain specific characteristics of the production methods followed by some producers of the Turkish Cypriot 
community that do not use mint or pasteurised milk.
(35)
However, firstly, such allegations have not been accompanied by any solid evidence. Secondly, the requirements 
concerning the addition of mint, the use of pasteurised milk and the respective proportion of sheep, goat’s and 
cow’s milk are already included in the relevant Cyprus standard adopted in 1985. Therefore, any product not 
conforming to such standard could not be legally marketed as ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ within Cyprus, 
independently of the fact that it may be marketed in the territory of third countries where this cheese would not be 
currently protected. Furthermore, an exhaustive national opposition procedure over several years has been carried 
out at national level on the current application, and natural or legal persons disagreeing with the legally required 
production standards have had the opportunity to raise fully their related claims in front of the administrative and 
judicial authorities of Cyprus. In that framework, as indicated, a transitional period has been granted to these 
operators.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 125/46                                                                                                                                         
13.4.2021  
(36)
As regards the alleged lack of scientific evidence in respect of various parameters and characteristics included in the 
product specification, requesting overly detailed information is unreasonable, excessively burdensome and 
irrelevant. Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 does not require such a detailed technical and scientific description of 
each parameter or characteristic of the product for which the PDO concerned is to be used.
(37)
The Commission has assessed the Cypriot application and it has not identified any manifest error therein. The 
opponents did not submit sufficiently reasoned evidence showing that the Cypriot application is inherently flawed. 
They essentially invoke insufficient scientific grounds for the application. The facts, statements, reasoning and 
references submitted by Cyprus are deemed sufficiently convincing to justify the registration of ‘Χαλλούμι’ 
(Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ as PDO under Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012.
(38)
The product specification of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ contains numerous elements qualifying the name as 
Protected Designation of Origin under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012: the Mediterranean climate, 
characterised by hot/dry summers and mild/wet winters; the terrain, as mountains on the island receive a relatively 
high amount of rainfall, and affect the hydrology and environment of the lower lying areas; that, owing to its 
geological structure, climate, geographical position and surrounding sea, Cyprus has one of the richest floras in the 
Mediterranean, despite its small size; the local breeds of fat-tailed sheep and of the local Machaira and Pissouri 
goats, as well as other breeds which are well-adapted to the local climate; the local practice of cooking the product 
at a high temperature for a specific length of time without melting, so producing high levels of certain basic 
chemical compounds that help determine the taste of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ (mainly lactones and methyl 
ketones); the typical folding of the curds, as part of the production process, which sets ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/ 
‘Hellim’ apart from all other cheeses; and the addition of Cypriot mint, which gives the final product its 
characteristic aroma.
(39)
Pursuant to the division of powers between the Commission and the Member States concerning the registration 
procedure of geographical indications under Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, the Commission should verify that a 
given application is not tainted with manifest errors, while competent national authorities, including, if applicable, 
national courts, are best placed to assess the technicalities of a given application before the application for 
registration is submitted to the Commission.
(40)
Pending the reunification of Cyprus, Article 1(1) of Protocol No 10 on Cyprus to the 2003 Act of Accession 
suspends the application of the acquis in the areas of the Republic of Cyprus in which the Government of the 
Republic of Cyprus does not exercise effective control. Consequently, the Cypriot Government may not be held 
liable for any consequences of not supervising the application of Union law in those areas. Pursuant to Article 3 of 
that Protocol, nothing is to preclude measures with a view to promoting the economic development of those areas. 
Such measures are not to affect the application of the acquis under the conditions set out in the Accession Treaty in 
any other part of the Republic of Cyprus. A bi-communal working group may be constituted in relation to 
‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ since experience has shown such groups play an important role.
(41)
Within this framework, considering that the natural and human factors related to the production of ‘Χαλλούμι’ 
(Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ are objectively, traditionally and historically common to the entire island of Cyprus, the whole 
island of Cyprus should be included when delimiting the eligible geographical area of this cheese.
(42)
Accordingly, in order to allow the registration to cover the entire eligible geographical area of production of this 
cheese, and bearing in mind the requirement of Article 46(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, operators willing 
to adhere to the specification of this cheese should be able to do so without facing obstacles to participation that 
would prove discriminatory or otherwise not objectively founded. An effective and lasting control mechanism, in 
accordance with Articles 35 to 40 of that Regulation, ensuring compliance by operators with the product 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
13.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 125/47  
specification throughout the eligible geographical area should therefore be laid down. Bearing in mind that the acquis 
is suspended in the areas in which the Government of the Republic of Cyprus does not exercise effective control, a 
workable arrangement should be exceptionally and temporarily established pending the reunification of Cyprus, in 
order to guarantee that controls may be efficiently performed throughout the island, as the lack thereof would 
constitute grounds for cancellation in accordance with Article 54 of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012.
(43)
Article 37(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 provides that in respect of protected designations of origin 
verification of compliance with the product specification, before placing the product on the market, may be carried 
out by delegated bodies as defined in Article 3(5) of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. Delegated bodies are separate legal 
persons to which certain official control tasks have been delegated. Within that framework and in line with the 
Common Understanding, as well as due to the exceptional situation in the areas of the Republic of Cyprus where 
the application of the acquis is suspended, it is appropriate that the internationally accredited body Bureau Veritas is 
appointed as the body in charge of the control tasks provided for by Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 in respect of the 
‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ specification throughout Cyprus. Registration of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’, as 
envisaged by the Common Understanding, is conditional upon those control tasks being delegated to Bureau Veritas 
in accordance with Articles 28 and 29 of Regulation (EU) 2017/625. Indeed, Bureau Veritas has acquired a 
significant and long-standing expertise in checking PDOs, and is able to ensure the establishment of an effective, 
objective and impartial overall mechanism for the performance of the official controls related to the verification of 
compliance with the product specification of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ throughout Cyprus at farm, feed mill, 
milk collection, transportation and cheese factory level. Thus, all producers throughout the island would be subject 
to a common control mechanism that ensures full compliance with the product specification of ‘Χαλλούμι’ 
(Halloumi)/‘Hellim’. Should it be deemed appropriate, Bureau Veritas should be authorised to liaise with the Turkish 
Cypriot Chamber of Commerce. Should Bureau Veritas report instances of non-compliance and should the 
producers concerned fail to remedy the said instances of non-compliance, they should ultimately be deprived of the 
right to use the name.
(44)
Due to the exceptional situation in the areas of the Republic of Cyprus where the application of the acquis is 
suspended, the delegation to Bureau Veritas should provide that its reports be sent to the competent authorities of 
the Republic of Cyprus and to the Commission. The Turkish Cypriot Chamber of Commerce will receive 
information when deemed appropriate.
(45)
Intellectual property rights are governed by the principle of territoriality. As a consequence, the registration of 
‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ as a PDO within the Union is solely subject to the situation prevailing there. The 
possible production or marketing in third countries of a cheese bearing that name has no relevance in that 
connection. Likewise, the possible existence of regulatory production standards for this cheese outside the Union is 
of no relevance.
(46)
It should further be pointed out that, in accordance with Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, the placing 
on the market of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ within the Union is conditional on the compliance with other 
specific Union provisions of relevance, including the fulfilment of sanitary provisions applicable at Union level.
(47)
No solid evidence has been provided in the opposition procedure as regards imports of such cheese from third 
countries into the Union. As a consequence, there are no grounds for a transitional period under Article 15(1) of 
Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 to be granted to specific producers in third countries.
(48)
It is undisputed that Cyprus is by far the largest producer and exporter of this cheese worldwide, with a production 
of more than 19 500 tons per year, amounting to 24,4 kg per capita. These figures do not include the production in 
the areas of the Republic of Cyprus where the Government of the Republic of Cyprus does not exercise effective 
control.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 125/48                                                                                                                                         
13.4.2021  
(49)
‘Halloumi’ was registered as a trade mark in 2000 with the OHIM in respect of the cheese made in Cyprus pursuant 
to the relevant Cyprus standard adopted in 1985, thus in accordance with the ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ 
specification. A single opposition to such registration was lodged before the OHIM, yet subsequently withdrawn. 
Therefore, the Cypriot identity of such cheese was not challenged at that time. The General Court has also 
considered, notably in joined Cases T-292/14 and T-293/14 (5), that ‘HALLOUMI’ and ‘ΧΑΛΛΟΥMI’ refer to a 
speciality cheese from Cyprus. In Case T-535/10 (6), the General Court held that the Greek term ‘Halloumi’ is to be 
translated in the Turkish language as ‘Hellim’, thus both referring to the same special Cypriot cheese. In respect of 
other trade marks registered in the Union, should they conflict with the ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ designation, 
the provisions of Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 would apply. By contrast, no elements have been 
adduced by the opponents that would lead to the non-protection of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ due to the 
reputation or renown of a prior registered trade mark.
(50)
The United Kingdom was a Member State of the European Union when it lodged the opposition but it is no longer 
part of it.
(51)
According to the reasoned statement of opposition submitted by the United Kingdom its domestic production 
amounted to around 300 tons per year, amounting to 0,00461 kg per capita, while the United Kingdom imports 
roughly 6 500 tons of this cheese from Cyprus per year.
(52)
According to this reasoned statement, the registration of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ as a protected designation of 
origin under Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 would therefore prevent the use of the name ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ for 
cheese products produced in the United Kingdom.
(53)
However, with the exception of Northern Ireland, this Regulation does not apply to the territory of the United 
Kingdom as the protection of the name would not extend thereto. As regards in particular Northern Ireland, on 
which territory the protection of the name will apply, in the light of the information included in the reasoned 
statement of opposition submitted by the United Kingdom to the Commission and of the factual and legal context 
concerning the use of the name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’, there are no valid grounds for operators to continue 
to use the name ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ for cheese products produced in the United Kingdom.
(54)
Regarding the alleged generic nature of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’, it should be stated that the perception of this 
term outside the European Union and the possible existence of related regulatory production standards or judicial 
decisions adopted in third countries are not deemed relevant to the present decision.
(55)
Contrary to the claims of the opponents, ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’, has not become a type of cheese produced 
all over Europe whose name has become generic. The production of this cheese outside Cyprus is negligible, while 
the product is known and consumed in most of the Union territory. No national or Union acts have established the 
generic nature of the name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’. No claims for the generic nature of the name have been 
made in the framework of the opposition procedure conducted at Union level, with the exception of the opposition 
from the United Kingdom.
(56)
Likewise, the consumption of ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ within the Union territory concerns in the vast majority 
of cases a cheese produced in Cyprus.
(57)
The Cypriot authorities have further convincingly demonstrated that Union consumers do not consider ‘Halloumi’ 
or ‘Hellim’ as a mere type of cheese, disconnected from a specific geographical origin. Evidence from stakeholders in 
the food industry, export activity of Cypriot companies for over 100 years, numerous articles in the media, cheese 
promotion/advertising activities show beyond any doubt the intrinsic Cypriot identity of this cheese since centuries. 
Equally, prestigious encyclopaedias and dictionaries from various countries and in different languages do confirm 
such standing and exclusive correlation between this cheese and the Cyprus terroir.
(5) Judgment of the General Court (Fourth Chamber) of 7 October 2015 in joined Cases T-292/14 and T-293/14 Republic of Cyprus v 
Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs).
(6) Judgment of the General Court (Eighth Chamber) of 13 June 2012 in Case T-535/10 Organismos Kypriakis Galaktokomikis 
Viomichanias v Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
13.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 125/49  
(58)
Incidentally, a number of labels of ‘Halloumi’/‘Hellim’ produced outside Cyprus refer directly or indirectly to Cyprus, 
by suggesting that the cheese follows the Cypriot traditional recipe or tradition or is inspired by that recipe or 
tradition, or by using imagery or textual representations linking it to Cyprus culture. Such correlation made with 
Cyprus, albeit in respect of a non-Cypriot cheese, is thus suggested and sought deliberately as part of a sales strategy 
that capitalises on the reputation of the original product, hence creating a genuine risk of consumer confusion.
(59)
The statement of the OHIM concerning the allegedly generic nature of the name ‘Halloumi’ made in various 
decisions of the Board of appeal, and in particular in the Decision 20 September 2010 then annulled by the General 
Court (7), is merely an obiter dictum. That statement stands in contrast with the judgment of the General Court in Case 
T-535/10, that outlines the Cypriot identity of the cheese named ‘Halloumi’ or ‘Hellim’, and does not address the 
generic nature of the name within the meaning of Article 41 of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012. Furthermore, that 
statement was made before the submission of the application to register the name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ as 
a PDO.
(60)
By letter of 9 July 2014, Cyprus communicated to the Commission that a transitional period of 10 years as from the 
date of submission of the application to the Commission had been granted, by decision No 326/2014 of the 
Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and the Environment of the Republic of Cyprus of 9 July 2014, to 
operators established in the geographical area that fulfil the conditions of Article 15(4) of Regulation (EU) 
No 1151/2012.
(61)
In order to allow adequate time, taking into account also the additional constraints imposed by the pandemic of 
COVID-19, for the body in charge of the control tasks to put in place and implement its control plan allowing all 
operators in the geographical area willing to adhere to the rules of the scheme to be covered by the applicable 
verification system, the application of this Regulation should be deferred to 1 October 2021.
(62)
The name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ should therefore be entered in the register of protected designations of 
origin and protected geographical indications.
(63)
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Agricultural Product Quality 
Policy Committee,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
The name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ (PDO) is registered. 
The name referred to in the first paragraph identifies a product from Class 1.3. Cheeses set out in Annex XI to Commission 
Implementing Regulation (EU) No 668/2014 (8).
Article 2
The protection of the name ‘Χαλλούμι’ (Halloumi)/‘Hellim’ (PDO) shall be subject to the 10 years transitional period granted 
by Cyprus, by decision No 326/2014 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and the Environment of the 
Republic of Cyprus of 9 July 2014, to operators established in the geographical area that fulfil the conditions of Article 
15(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012.
Article 3
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union. 
(7) Decision of the fourth board of appeal of OHMI of 20 September 2010 (Case R 1497/2009-4), annulled by the judgment of the 
General Court (Eighth Chamber) of 13 June 2012 in Case T-535/10.
(8) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 668/2014 of 13 June 2014 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 
No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs (OJ L 179, 
19.6.2014, p. 36).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 125/50                                                                                                                                         
13.4.2021  
It shall apply from 1 October 2021.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 12 April 2021.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
13.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 125/51  
