COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2021/646 
of 19 April 2021
laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 of the European Parliament and 
of the Council as regards uniform procedures and technical specifications for the type-approval of 
motor vehicles with regard to their emergency lane-keeping systems (ELKS) 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on 
type-approval requirements for motor vehicles and their trailers, and systems, components and separate technical units 
intended for such vehicles, as regards their general safety and the protection of vehicle occupants and vulnerable road 
users, amending Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulations (EC) 
No 78/2009, (EC) No 79/2009 and (EC) No 661/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission 
Regulations (EC) No 631/2009, (EU) No 406/2010, (EU) No 672/2010, (EU) No 1003/2010, (EU) No 1005/2010, (EU) 
No 1008/2010, (EU) No 1009/2010, (EU) No 19/2011, (EU) No 109/2011, (EU) No 458/2011, (EU) No 65/2012, (EU) 
No 130/2012, (EU) No 347/2012, (EU) No 351/2012, (EU) No 1230/2012 and (EU) 2015/166 (1), and in particular 
Article 7(6) in conjunction with Article 7(3) thereof,
Whereas:
(1)
Article 7(3) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 requires passenger cars and light commercial vehicles to be equipped 
with emergency lane-keeping systems. It is necessary to establish rules as regards uniform procedures and technical 
specifications for the type-approval of vehicles with regard to the emergency lane-keeping systems.
(2)
The type-approval procedures set out in Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (2) apply to the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to the emergency lane-keeping systems. To 
allow for a consistent approach with regard to the information to be provided in the information document referred 
to in Article 24(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, the information relevant for the emergency lane-keeping system 
should be further specified in this Regulation.
(3)
The EU type-approval certificate, referred to in Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, to be issued for 
emergency lane-keeping systems, should be based on the respective Model template laid down in Annex III to 
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683 (3). However, the addendum to the type-approval certificate 
should contain the information specific to the emergency lane-keeping systems as defined in this Regulation, 
therefore the template for the type-approval certificate with the complemented addendum should be laid down in 
this Regulation.
(4)
In accordance with note 6 to the table in Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2019/2144, the application of the requirement 
for mandatory fitting an emergency lane-keeping system is deferred by two years with regard to motor vehicles with 
hydraulic power assisted steering systems. For that period, such vehicles should be equipped with a lane departure 
warning system meeting the requirements of this Regulation.
(1) OJ L 325, 16.12.2019, p. 1.
(2) Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the approval and market surveillance of 
motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, amending 
Regulations (EC) No 715/2007 and (EC) No 595/2009 and repealing Directive 2007/46/EC (OJ L 151, 14.6.2018, p. 1).
(3) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683 of 15 April 2020 implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council with regards to the administrative requirements for the approval and market surveillance of motor 
vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles (OJ L 163, 26.5.2020, 
p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/31  
(5)
The emergency lane-keeping system is a driver assisting system that should provide warning to the driver and correct 
the trajectory only when the driver is unintentionally leaving the lane.
(6)
In accordance with national traffic legislation, drivers are allowed to cross dashed-lane markings and it is particularly 
difficult for current technologies to assess whether the crossing of dashed-lane markings by the driver is intentional 
or not. In order to avoid unnecessary interventions by the emergency lane-keeping system, which may prompt the 
driver to switch the system off and thus lead to loss of potential safety benefit, the emergency lane-keeping system 
should be required only to warn the driver and not to correct the vehicle trajectory when crossing dashed-lane 
markings.
(7)
The currently existing technologies for the emergency lane-keeping systems are based on the detection of lane 
markings and the performance of those systems cannot be guaranteed in the absence of such markings. Therefore, 
the emergency lane-keeping systems should not be required to operate in the absence of lane markings.
(8)
Given the complexity of the electronic control system(s) of emergency lane-keeping systems, it is necessary to 
supplement the tests provided in this Regulation by documentation, demonstrating the design and validation 
measures taken by the manufacturer to ensure that the emergency lane-keeping system operates safely in various 
situations. The relevant documentation to be provided by the manufacturer and the procedures for its assessment 
by the approval authorities or technical services shall be defined in this Regulation.
(9)
As Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 is to apply from 6 July 2022, this Regulation should apply from the same date.
(10)
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Technical Committee – 
Motor Vehicles,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Administrative provisions and technical specifications for the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to the 
emergency lane-keeping systems
1.
The information document, submitted in accordance with Article 24(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858 with the 
application for type-approval of a type of vehicle with regard to the emergency lane-keeping system, shall consist of the 
information relevant for that system as contained in Part 1 of Annex I.
2.
The type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to emergency lane-keeping systems shall be subject to the technical 
specifications set out in Part 2 of Annex I.
3.
Where motor vehicles with hydraulic power assisted steering are equipped, instead of emergency lane-keeping 
systems, with lane departure warning systems as defined in Article 3(9) of Regulation (EU) 2019/2144, those lane 
departure warning systems shall comply with the relevant technical specifications set out in Part 2 of Annex I.
4.
The EU type-approval certificate for a type of vehicle with regard to the emergency lane-keeping system, as referred to 
in Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, shall be drawn up in accordance with Part 3 of Annex I.
Article 2
Safety audit
Procedures for verification of the safety aspects of electronic control systems of the emergency lane-keeping systems by the 
approval authorities or technical services and for the assessment of the technical documentation provided by the 
manufacturers are laid down in Annex II.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/32                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
Article 3
Entry into force and application
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 
European Union.
It shall apply from 6 July 2022.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 19 April 2021.
For the Commission
The President
Ursula VON DER LEYEN
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/33  
ANNEX I 
PART 1
Information document for EU type-approval of vehicles with regard to their emergency lane-keeping 
systems
MODEL
Information document No … relating to the EU type-approval of a type of vehicle with regard to the emergency lane- 
keeping system.
The following information shall be supplied in triplicate and include a list of contents. Any drawings or pictures shall be 
supplied in appropriate scale and in sufficient detail on size A4 or on a folder of A4 format. Photographs, if any, shall 
show sufficient detail.
If the systems, referred to in this information document have electronic controls, information concerning their 
performance shall be supplied.
0.
GENERAL
0.1.
Make (trade name of manufacturer):
0.2.
Type:
0.2.1.
Commercial name(s) (if available):
0.3.
Means of identification of type, if marked on the vehicle/component/separate technical unit:
0.3.1.
Location of that marking:
0.4.
Category of vehicle:
0.5.
Company name and address of manufacturer:
0.8.
Name(s) and address(es) of assembly plant(s):
0.9.
Name and address of the manufacturer’s representative (if any):
1.
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION CHARACTERISTICS
1.1.
Photographs and/or drawings of a representative vehicle/component/separate technical unit:
1.8.
Hand of drive: left/right
2.
MASSES AND DIMENSIONS
(in kg and mm) (Refer to drawing where applicable)
2.6.
Mass in running order
(a) Minimum and maximum for each variant:
(b) Mass of each version (a matrix must be provided):
4.
TRANSMISSION
4.5.
Gearbox
4.5.1.
Type: Manual/Automatic/CVT(continuously variable transmission)/Fixedratio/Automised/Other/Wheel hub
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/34                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
4.7.
Maximum vehicle design speed (in km/h):
6.6.1.
Tyre/wheel combination(s)
6.6.1.1.
Axles
6.6.1.1.1. Axle 1:
6.6.1.1.1.1.
Tyre size 
designation
6.6.1.1.1.2.
Load-capacity 
index
6.6.1.1.1.3.
Speed category 
symbol
6.6.1.1.1.4.
Wheel rim size (s)
6.6.1.1.1.5.
Wheel off-set(s)
6.6.1.1.1.6.
Rolling resistance 
coefficient (RRC)
6.6.1.1.2. Axle 2:
6.6.1.1.2.1.
Tyre size 
designation
6.6.1.1.2.2.
Load-capacity 
index
6.6.1.1.2.3.
Speed category 
symbol
6.6.1.1.2.4.
Wheel rim size (s)
6.6.1.1.2.5.
Wheel off-set(s)
6.6.1.1.2.6.
Rolling resistance 
coefficient (RRC)
etc.
6.6.1.2.
Spare wheel, if any:
7.4.
Emergency lane-keeping system (ELKS)
7.4.1.
Technical description and drawing of the system:
7.4.2.
Means to manually deactivate the ELKS:
7.4.3.
Description of the automatic deactivation (if fitted):
7.4.4.
Description of the automatic suppression (if fitted):
7.5.
Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS)
7.5.1
Speed range of the LDWS:
7.5.2.
Technical description and drawing of the LDWS):
7.6.
Corrective Directional Control Function (CDCF)
7.6.1
Speed range of the CDCF:
7.6.2.
Technical description and drawing of the system (in particular if the system uses steering or braking):
Explanatory note:
This information document comprises the information relevant for the emergency lane keeping system and shall be 
completed in accordance with the template laid down in Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/35  
PART 2
Technical specifications
1.
Definitions
For the purpose of the Annexes, the following definitions shall apply:
1.1.
‘vehicle type with regard to its emergency lane-keeping system’ means a category of vehicles which do not differ 
in such essential aspects as:
(1) vehicle features which significantly influence the performances of the emergency lane-keeping system;
(2) the type and design of the emergency lane-keeping system;
1.2.
‘corrective directional control function (CDCF)’ means a control function within an electronic control system 
whereby, for a limited duration, changes to the steering angle of one or more wheels and/or braking of 
individual wheels may result from the automatic evaluation of signals initiated on-board the vehicle optionally 
enriched by data provided off-board the vehicle, in order to correct lane departure, e.g. to avoid crossing lane 
markings, leaving the road;
1.3.
‘subject vehicle’ means the vehicle being tested;
1.4.
‘distance to lane marking (DTLM)’ means the remaining lateral distance (perpendicular to the lane marking) 
between the inner side of the lane marking and most outer edge of the tyre before the subject vehicle crosses 
the inner side of the lane marking;
1.5.
‘flat road’ means a road with a slope less than 1 % in the longitudinal direction and for the lateral direction, less 
than 2 % for half a lane width either side of the centreline and less than 3 % for the outer half of the lane;
1.6.
‘dry road’ means a road with a nominal peak braking coefficient of 0,9;
1.7.
‘The System’ means the electronic control system and complex electronic control systems that provide or form 
part of the control transmission of the emergency lane-keeping system, including the transmission links to or 
from other vehicle systems that act on the emergency lane-keeping system;
1.8.
‘units’ means the smallest divisions of system components which will be considered, since these combinations of 
components will be treated as single entities for purposes of identification, analysis or replacement;
1.9.
‘transmission links’ means any electric, mechanic, pneumatic or hydraulic equipment used for inter-connecting 
distributed units for the purpose of conveying signals, operating data or energy supply;
1.10.
‘electronic control system’ means a combination of units, designed to cooperate in the production of a vehicle 
control function by electronic data processing;
1.11.
‘complex electronic vehicle control system’ means an electronic control system in which a function controlled 
by an electronic system or the driver may be over-ridden by a higher level electronic control system/function, 
thus becoming part of the complex system, as well as any overriding of the system, including the transmission 
links to and from the overriding systems/function outside of the scope of this Regulation;
1.12.
‘control strategy’ means a strategy to ensure robust and safe operation of the function(s) of an electronic control 
system in response to a specific set of ambient and/or operating conditions (such as road surface condition, 
traffic intensity and other road users, adverse weather conditions, etc.), which may include the automatic 
deactivation of a function or temporary performance restrictions (e.g. a reduction in the maximum operating 
speed, etc.);
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/36                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
1.13.
‘safety concept’ means a description of the measures designed into the system, for instance within the electronic 
units, so as to address system integrity and ensure safe operation under fault and non-fault conditions, including 
in the event of an electrical failure. The possibility of a fallback to partial operation or even to a back-up system 
for vital vehicle functions may be a part of the safety concept.
2.
General requirements
2.1.
An emergency lane-keeping system (ELKS) shall comprise a lane departure warning system (LDWS) and a 
corrective directional control function (CDCF).
2.1.1.
The LDWS shall meet the requirements of points of 3.1 to 3.4 and point 3.5.
2.1.2.
The CDCF shall meet the requirements of points of 3.1 to 3.4 and point 3.6.
2.2.
ELKS lane departure warnings and interventions
Subject to specific requirements below the system shall be designed to minimise warnings and interventions for 
driver intended manoeuvres.
3.
Specific requirements
3.1.
ELKS failure warning
A warning shall be provided when there is a failure in the ELKS that prevents the requirements of this Regulation 
of being met.
3.1.1.
The failure warning shall be a constant visual warning signal.
3.1.1.1.
There shall not be an appreciable time interval between each ELKS self-check (an integrated function that checks 
for a system failure on a continuous basis at least while the system is active), and subsequently there shall not be 
a delay in illuminating the warning signal, in the case of an electrically detectable failure.
3.1.1.2.
Upon detection of any non-electrical failure condition (e.g. sensor misalignment), the warning signal as defined 
in point 3.1.1 shall be activated.
3.1.2.
If the vehicle is equipped with a means to deactivate the ELKS a warning shall be given when the system is 
deactivated according to point 3.2. This shall be a constant visual warning signal. The failure warning signal 
specified in point 3.1.1. may be used for this purpose.
3.2.
ELKS deactivation
3.2.1.
Manual deactivation
When a vehicle is equipped with a means to manually deactivate the ELKS function, either partially or fully, the 
following conditions shall apply as appropriate:
3.2.1.1.
The full ELKS function shall be automatically and fully reinstated upon each activation of the vehicle master 
control switch.
3.2.1.2.
The manual deactivation of the full ELKS shall not be possible with less than two deliberate actions, e.g. press 
and hold on a button, or select and confirm on menu option. It shall be possible to easily suppress acoustic 
warnings of the LDWS, but such action shall not at the same time deactivate the LDWS or the CDCF.
3.2.1.3.
The manual deactivation capability shall be tested in accordance with the relevant vehicle test(s) specified in 
point 3.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/37  
3.2.2.
Automatic deactivation
If the vehicle is equipped with a means to automatically deactivate the ELKS function, either partially or fully, for 
instance in situations such as off-road use, being towed, a trailer being hitched to the vehicle or the electronic 
stability control (ESC) being deactivated, the following conditions shall apply as appropriate:
3.2.2.1.
As part of the safety audit, the vehicle manufacturer shall provide a list of situations and corresponding criteria 
where the ELKS function is automatically deactivated which shall be annexed to the test report.
3.2.2.2.
The ELKS function shall be automatically and fully reactivated as soon as the conditions that led to the automatic 
deactivation are not present anymore.
3.2.3.
A constant visual warning signal shall inform the driver that the ELKS function has been deactivated. The failure 
warning signal specified in point 3.1.1 above may be used for this purpose.
3.3.
Automatic suppression
3.3.1.
For driver intended manoeuvres
As part of the safety audit, the manufacturer shall provide a documentation package which gives access to the 
basic design and logic of the system for detection of likely driver intended manoeuvres and automatic 
suppression of the ELKS. This package shall include a list of parameters detected and a basic description of the 
method used to decide that the system should be suppressed, including limit values where possible. For both 
the CDCF and LDWS, the Technical Service shall assess the documentation package to show that driver 
unintentional manoeuvres, within the scope of the lane keep test parameters (in particular lateral departure 
velocity), will not result in automatic suppression of the system.
3.3.2.
Automatic suppression of the ELKS is also permitted in situations when other driver assist or automated steering 
functions, (i.e. Automatically commanded steering function, emergency steering function or automated lane 
keeping), are controlling the lateral movement of the vehicle or other safety related functions (i.e. that is capable 
of changing the dynamic behaviour of the vehicle such as AEBS, ESC, etc.) are intervening. These situations shall 
be declared by the manufacturer as part of the safety audit.
3.4.
Provisions for periodic roadworthiness tests
3.4.1.
For the purpose of periodic roadworthiness tests of vehicles, it shall be possible to verify the following features 
of the ELKS:
(a) Its correct operational status, by visible observation of the failure warning signal status following the 
activation of the vehicle master control switch and any bulb check. Where the failure warning signal is 
displayed in a common space (the area on which two or more information functions/symbols may be 
displayed, but not simultaneously), it must be checked first that the common space must be observed to be 
functional prior to the failure warning signal status check;
(b) Its correct functionality and the software integrity, by the use of an electronic vehicle interface, such as the 
one laid down in point I.(14) of Annex III of Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (1), where the technical characteristics of the vehicle allow for it and the necessary data is made 
available. Manufacturers shall ensure to make available the technical information for the use of the 
electronic vehicle interface in accordance with Article 6 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 
2019/621 (2).
(1) Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor 
vehicles and their trailers and repealing Directive 2009/40/EC (OJ L 127, 29.4.2014, p. 51).
(2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/621 of 17 April 2019 on the technical information necessary for roadworthiness 
testing of the items to be tested, on the use of the recommended test methods, and establishing detailed rules concerning the data 
format and the procedures for accessing the relevant technical information (OJ L 108, 23.4.2019, p. 5).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/38                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
3.4.2.
At the time of type approval, the means to protect against simple unauthorised modification of the operation of 
the failure warning signal chosen by the manufacturer shall be confidentially outlined as part of the safety audit 
in Annex II. Alternatively, this protection requirement is fulfilled when a secondary means of checking the 
correct operational status of the ELKS is available.
3.5.
LDWS requirements
3.5.1.
Speed range
The LDWS shall be active at least within the vehicle speed range between 65 km/h and 130 km/h (or the 
maximum vehicle speed if it is lower than 130 km/h) and at all vehicle load conditions, unless deactivated as 
per point 3.2.
3.5.2.
Lane departure warning
When activated and operated within the prescribed speed range, the LDWS shall be able to warn the driver at the 
latest if the vehicle crosses over a visible lane marking for the lane in which it is running by more than a DTLM 
of – 0,3 m:
(a) for lateral departure velocities in the range of the 0,1 m/s to 0,5 m/s;
(b) on straight, flat and dry roads;
(c) for solid line and dashed lane markings in line with one of those described in Annex 3 (Visible lane marking 
identification) to Regulation No 130 of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) – 
Uniform provisions concerning the approval of motor vehicles with regard to the Lane Departure Warning 
System (3) and other markings expected on EU roads;
(d) with the markings being in good condition and of a material conforming to the standard for visible 
markings of that contracting party;
(e) in all illumination conditions without blinding of the sensors (e.g. direct blinding due to sunlight) and with 
activated passing-beam (dipped-beam) headlamps if necessary;
(f)
in absence of weather conditions affecting the visibility of lane markings (e.g. no fog).
It is recognised that the performance required may not be fully achieved in other conditions than those listed 
above. However, the system shall not unreasonably switch the control strategy in these other conditions.
The lane departure warning capability shall be tested in accordance with the relevant vehicle test(s) specified in 
point 4.
3.5.3.
LDWS warning indication
3.5.3.1.
The lane departure warning referred to in point 3.5.2 shall be noticeable by the driver and be provided by:
(a) at least two warning means out of visual, acoustic and haptic; or
(b) one warning means out of haptic and acoustic, with spatial indication about the direction of unintended 
drift of the vehicle.
The warning mentioned above may be suppressed when there is a driver action which indicates an intention to 
depart from the lane;
3.5.3.1.1. Where a visual signal is used for the lane departure warning, it may use the failure warning signal as specified in 
point 3.1.1 above in a flashing mode.
3.5.3.1.2. When there is a lane keep intervention by the CDCF, this shall be considered a haptic warning according to point 
3.5.3.1.
(3) OJ L 178, 18.6.2014, p. 29.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/39  
3.5.3.2.
The LDWS visual warning signal shall be activated following a vehicle master control switch ‘power-ON’. This 
requirement does not apply to warning signals shown in a common space.
3.5.3.3.
The LDWS visual warning signals shall be visible even by daylight; the satisfactory condition of the signals must 
be easily verifiable by the driver from the driver’s seat.
3.5.3.4.
The visual warning signal shall be tested in accordance with the relevant vehicle test(s) specified in point 4.
3.6.
CDCF performance requirements
3.6.1.
Speed range
The CDCF shall be active at least between 70 km/h and 130 km/h (or the maximum vehicle speed if it is below 
130 km/h) and at all vehicle load conditions, unless deactivated as per point 3.2. However, in the case that the 
vehicle reduces its speed from above 70 km/h to below 70 km/h, the system shall be active at least until the 
vehicle speed reduces below 65 km/h.
3.6.2.
Lane keep
In the absence of conditions leading to deactivation or suppression of the system, the CDCF shall be able to 
prevent lane departure by crossing of visible lane markings in the scenarios shown in the following table by 
more than a DTLM of – 0,3 m:
(a) for lateral departure velocities in the range of the 0,2 m/s to 0,5 m/s for vehicle speeds up 100 km/h and for 
lateral departure velocities in the range of 0,2 m/s to 0,3 m/s for vehicle speeds greater than 100 km/h and 
up to 130 km/h (or the maximum vehicle speed if it is below 130 km/h);
(b) on straight, flat and dry roads;
(c) for solid lane markings in line with one of those described in Annex 3 (Visible lane marking identification) 
to UN Regulation No 130;
(d) with the markings being in good condition and of a material conforming to the standard for visible 
markings of that contracting party;
(e) in all illumination conditions without blinding of the sensors (e.g. direct blinding sunlight) and with 
activated passing-beam (dipped-beam) headlamps if necessary;
(f)
in absence of weather conditions affecting the dynamic performance of the vehicle (e.g. no storm, not below 
5 °C) or the visibility of lane markings (e.g. no fog).
No
Scenario description
1.
Solid line – Departure to right side of the vehicle
2.
Solid line – Departure to left side of the vehicle
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/40                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
It is recognised that the performances required for the scenarios in this table may not be fully achieved in other 
conditions than those listed above. However, the system shall not unreasonably switch the control strategy in 
these other conditions. This shall be demonstrated in accordance with the safety audit.
The lane keep capability shall be tested in accordance with the relevant vehicle test(s) specified in point 5.
3.6.3.
Steering override
3.6.3.1.
The steering control effort necessary to override the directional control provided by the system shall not exceed 
50 N. Significant loss of steering support once overridden shall not happen suddenly.
3.6.3.2.
For CDCF systems which do not act on the steering itself (e.g. differential braking type CDCF), the steering input 
shall not exceed 25 degrees.
3.6.3.3.
The steering override control effort shall be tested in accordance with the relevant vehicle test(s) specified in 
point 5.
3.6.4.
CDCF warning indication
3.6.4.1.
Every CDCF intervention shall immediately be indicated to the driver by a visual warning signal which is 
displayed for at least 1 second or as long as the intervention exists, whichever is longer. The visual signal may 
be the flashing of the failure warning signal specified in point 3.1.1.
3.6.4.1.1. In the case of an intervention longer than 10 seconds, an acoustic warning signal shall be provided until the end 
of the intervention unless there is a driver action which indicates an intention to depart from the lane.
3.6.4.1.2. In the case of two or more consecutive interventions within a rolling interval of 180 seconds and in the absence 
of a steering input by the driver during this intervention, an acoustic warning signal shall be provided by the 
system during the second and any further intervention within a rolling interval of 180 seconds. Starting with 
the third intervention (and subsequent interventions) the acoustic warning signal shall continue for at least 10 
seconds longer than the previous warning signal.
3.6.4.2.
The requirements in points 3.6.4.1.1 and 3.6.4.1.2 shall be tested in accordance with the relevant vehicle test(s) 
specified in point 5.
4.
Test requirements for LDWS
4.1.
General provisions
Vehicles fitted with LDWS shall fulfil the appropriate tests requirements of this point
4.2.
Testing conditions
The tests shall be performed:
(a) On a flat and dry asphalt or concrete road type surface, which may not contain any irregularities (e.g. large 
dips or cracks, manhole covers or reflective studs) within a lateral distance of 3,0 m to either side of the 
centre of the test lane and with a longitudinal distance of 30 m ahead of the subject vehicle from the point 
after the test is complete.
(b) In ambient illumination conditions of at least 2 000 lux without blinding of the sensors (e.g. direct blinding 
sunlight) and with activated low beam head lamps if necessary.
(c) In ambient air temperatures between 5 °C and 45 °C.
(d) In the absence of weather conditions affecting the visibility of lane markings, e.g. fog.
At the manufacturer’s discretion and with the agreement of the Technical Service the tests may be performed 
under conditions deviating from what is described above (e.g. at lower ambient air temperatures).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/41  
4.2.1.
Lane markings
The solid line and dashed lane markings on the road used for the tests shall be in line with one of those described 
in Annex 3 (Visible lane marking identification) to UN Regulation No 130. The markings shall be in good 
condition and of a material conforming to the standard for visible lane markings. The lane-marking layout used 
for the tests shall be recorded in the test report.
The width of the lane (measured between the lane markings) shall be a minimum of 3,5 m for the purpose of the 
tests of this point. The vehicle manufacturer shall demonstrate, through the use of documentation, compliance 
with all other lane markings identified in Annex 3 (Visible lane marking identification) to UN Regulation 
No 130. Any of such documentation shall be appended to the test report.
4.2.2.
Subject vehicle conditions
4.2.2.1.
Test mass
The subject vehicle shall be tested in a load condition agreed between the manufacturer and the Technical 
Service. No load alteration shall be made once the test procedure has begun. The vehicle manufacturer shall 
demonstrate, through the use of documentation, that the system works at all load conditions.
4.2.2.2.
The subject vehicle shall be tested at the tyre pressures recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.
4.2.2.3.
Where the LDWS is equipped with a user-adjustable warning threshold, the tests specified in point 4.3 shall be 
performed with the warning threshold set at its maximum lane departure setting. No alteration shall be made 
once the test procedure has begun.
4.2.2.4.
Pre-test conditioning
If requested by the vehicle manufacturer the vehicle can be driven to calibrate the sensor system up to a 
maximum of 100 km on a mixture of urban and rural roads with other traffic and roadside furniture.
4.3.
Test procedures
4.3.1.
Visual warning signal verification test
With the vehicle stationary check that the visual warning signal(s) comply with the requirements of point 
3.5.3.2.
4.3.2.
Lane departure warning test
4.3.2.1.
Drive the vehicle at a speed of 70 km/h +/– 3 km/h into the centre of the test lane in a smooth manner so that 
the attitude of the vehicle is stable.
Maintaining the prescribed speed, gently drift the vehicle, either to the left or the right, with a lateral departure 
velocity of between 0,1 and 0,5 m/s so that the vehicle crosses the lane marking.
Repeat the test at a different rate of departure within the range 0,1 and 0,5 m/s. Repeat the above tests drifting in 
the opposite direction.
4.3.2.2.
The test requirements are fulfilled if the LDWS provides the lane departure warning indication mentioned in 
point 3.5.3.1 above at the latest when the DLTM is – 0,3 m.
4.3.2.3.
In addition, the vehicle manufacturer shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Technical Service that the 
requirements for the whole speed range and lateral departure velocity range are fulfilled. This may be achieved 
on the basis of appropriate documentation appended to the test report.
4.3.3.
Manual deactivation test
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/42                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
4.3.3.1.
If the vehicle is equipped with means to manually deactivate the ELKS (LDWS), turn the vehicle master control 
switch to the ‘Power ON’ position and deactivate the ELKS (LDWS). The warning signal specified in point 3.2.3 
shall be activated.
Turn the master control switch to the ‘Power OFF’ position. Turn the vehicle master control switch to the ‘Power 
ON’ position and verify that the previously activated warning signal is not reactivated, thereby indicating that 
the ELKS (LDWS) has been reinstated as specified in point 3.2.1.1.
5.
Test requirements for CDCF
5.1.
General provisions
Vehicles fitted with CDCF shall fulfil the appropriate tests requirements of this point.
5.2.
Testing conditions
The tests shall be performed:
(a) On a flat and dry asphalt or concrete road type surface, which may not contain any irregularities (e.g. large 
dips or cracks, manhole covers or reflective studs) within a lateral distance of 3,0 m to either side of the 
centre of the test lane and with a longitudinal distance of 30 m ahead of the subject vehicle from the point 
after the test is complete.
(b) In ambient illumination conditions of at least 2 000 lux without blinding of the sensors (e.g. direct blinding 
sunlight) and with activated low beam head lamps if necessary.
(c) In ambient air temperatures between 5 °C and 45 °C.
(d) In the absence of weather conditions affecting the dynamic performance of the vehicle (e.g. no storm, not 
below 5 °C) or the visibility of lane markings (e.g. fog).
At the manufacturer’s discretion and with the agreement of the Technical Service the tests may be performed 
under conditions deviating from what is described above (e.g. at lower ambient air temperatures).
5.2.1.
Lane markings
The solid lane marking on the road used for the tests shall be in line with one of those described in Annex 3 
(Visible lane marking identification) to UN Regulation No 130. The marking shall be in good condition and of a 
material conforming to the standard for visible lane markings. The lane-marking used for the tests shall be 
recorded in the test report.
The solid lane marking shall be a minimum of 3,5 m distance from any other lane markings, for the purpose of 
the tests of this point. The vehicle manufacturer shall demonstrate, through the use of documentation, 
compliance with all other solid lane markings identified in Annex 3 (Visible lane marking identification) to UN 
Regulation No 130. Any of such documentation shall be appended to the test report.
5.2.2.
Subject vehicle conditions
5.2.2.1.
Test mass
The subject vehicle shall be tested in a load condition agreed between the manufacturer and the Technical 
Service. No load alteration shall be made once the test procedure has begun. The vehicle manufacturer shall 
demonstrate, through the use of documentation, that the system works at all load conditions.
5.2.2.2.
The subject vehicle shall be tested at the tyre pressures recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.
5.2.2.3.
Where the CDCF is equipped with a user-adjustable timing threshold, the test specified in point 5.3.3 shall be 
performed with the timing threshold set at its latest setting for system intervention. No alteration shall be made 
once the test procedure has begun.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/43  
5.2.2.4.
Pre-test conditioning
If requested by the vehicle manufacturer the vehicle can be driven to calibrate the sensor system up to a 
maximum of 100 km on a mixture of urban and rural roads with other traffic and roadside furniture.
5.3.
Tests procedures
5.3.1.
Warning Indication test
5.3.1.1.
The subject vehicle shall be driven with an activated CDCF on a road with solid lane markings on at least one 
side of the lane.
The test conditions and the subject vehicle test speed shall be within the operating range of the system.
During the test, the duration of the CDCF interventions and of the visual and acoustic warning signals shall be 
recorded.
In the case referred to in point 3.6.4.1.1, the subject vehicle shall be driven such that it attempts to leave the lane 
and causes CDCF intervention to be maintained for a period longer than 10 seconds. If such a test cannot be 
practically achieved due to e.g. the limitations of the test facilities, with the consent of the Type Approval 
Authority this requirement may be fulfilled through the use of documentation.
The test requirements are fulfilled if the acoustic warning is provided no later than 10 seconds after the 
beginning of the intervention.
In the case referred to in point 3.6.4.1.2., the subject vehicle shall be driven in such a way that it attempts to 
leave the lane and causes at least three interventions of the system within a rolling interval of 180 seconds.
The test requirements are fulfilled if all the following conditions are met:
(a) a visual warning signal is provided for each intervention, as long as the intervention exists;
(b) an acoustic warning signal is provided at the second and third intervention;
(c) the acoustic warning signal at the third intervention is at least 10 s longer than the one at the second 
intervention.
5.3.1.2.
In addition, the manufacturer shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Technical Service that the requirements 
defined in points 3.6.4.1.1 and 3.6.4.1.2 are fulfilled in the whole range of CDCF operation. This may be 
achieved on the basis of appropriate documentation appended to the test report.
5.3.2.
Steering override test
5.3.2.1.
The subject vehicle shall be driven with an activated CDCF on a road with solid lane markings on each side of 
the lane.
The test conditions and the subject vehicle test speed shall be within the operating range of the system.
The vehicle shall be driven such that it attempts to leave the lane and causes CDCF intervention. During the 
intervention, the driver shall apply the steering control effort necessary to override the intervention.
The force and steering input applied by the driver on the steering control to override the intervention shall be 
recorded.
The test requirements are fulfilled if:
(a) The force applied by the driver on the steering control to override the intervention does not exceed 50 N.
(b) There is no sudden loss of significant steering support once CDCF is overridden.
(c) For ELKS that do not act on the steering itself (e.g. differential braking type CDCF), the steering input does 
not exceed 25 degrees.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/44                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
5.3.2.2.
In addition, the manufacturer shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Technical Service that the requirements 
defined in paragraph 3.6.4 are fulfilled in the whole range of CDCF operation. This may be achieved on the basis 
of appropriate documentation appended to the test report.
5.3.3.
Lane keep test
5.3.3.1.
The CDCF shall be tested for test scenarios No 1 and No 2 described in point 3.6.2.
5.3.3.1.1. Tests for all scenarios shall be performed with lateral velocities of 0,2 m/s and 0,5 m/s.
5.3.3.1.2. A test path shall be driven which consists of an initial straight path parallel to the solid lane marking being 
tested, followed by a fixed radius curve to apply a known lateral velocity and yaw to the subject vehicle, 
followed again by a straight path without any force applied on the steering control (e.g. by removing the hands 
from the steering control).
5.3.3.1.3. The subject vehicle speed during the test up to the point of system intervention shall be 72 km/h +/– 1 km/h.
The curve of fixed radius driven to apply the lateral velocity required shall have a radius 1 200 m or more.
The lateral velocity required shall be achieved to a tolerance of +/– 0,05 m/s.
The vehicle manufacturer shall provide information describing the radius of the curve to be driven and the 
location when the closed loop path and/or speed control shall be ended so as to ensure a free drifting in order 
not to interfere an automatic suppression according to point 3.3.1.
5.3.3.2.
The test requirements are fulfilled if the subject vehicle does not cross the lane marking by a DTLM of more than 
– 0,3 m.
5.3.3.3.
In addition, the vehicle manufacturer shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Technical Service that the 
requirements for the whole speed range and lateral departure velocity range are fulfilled. This may be achieved 
on the basis of appropriate documentation appended to the test report.
PART 3
EU TYPE-APPROVAL CERTIFICATE (VEHICLE SYSTEM)
Communication concerning granting/extension/refusal/withdrawal (4) of type-approval of a type of vehicle with regard to its 
emergency lane-keeping system in accordance with the requirements laid down in Commission Implementing Regulation 
(EU) 2021/646 (5) [PO: this Regulation], as last amended by Regulation (EU) No 2021/646
Number of the EU type-approval certificate:
Reason for extension/refusal/withdrawal (1):
(4) Delete where not applicable.
(5) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/646 of 19 April 2021 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 
2019/2144 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards uniform procedures and technical specifications for the type- 
approval of motor vehicles with regard to their emergency lane-keeping systems (ELKS) (OJ L 133, 20.4.2021, p. 31).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/45  
SECTION I
0.1.
Make (trade name of manufacturer):
0.2.
Type:
0.2.1.
Commercial name(s) (if available):
0.3.
Means of identification of type, if marked on the vehicle:
0.3.1.
Location of that marking:
0.4.
Category of vehicle:
0.5.
Name and address of manufacturer:
0.8.
Name(s) and address(es) of assembly plant(s):
0.9.
Name and address of the manufacturer’s representative (if any):
SECTION II
1.
Additional information (where applicable): see Addendum.
2.
Technical service responsible for carrying out the tests:
3.
Date of test report:
4.
Number of test report:
5.
Remarks (if any): see Addendum.
6.
Place:
7.
Date:
8.
Signature:
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/46                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
Addendum 
to EU type-approval certificate number 
1.
Additional information
1.1.
Description of the system
1.2.
Means to manually deactivate the ELKS
1.3.
Description of the automatic deactivation (if fitted).
1.4.
Description of the automatic suppression (if fitted)
1.5.
Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS)
1.5.1
Speed range of the LDWS
1.5.2. Technical description and drawing of the LDWS)
1.6.
Corrective Directional Control Function (CDCF)
1.6.1
Speed range of the CDCF
1.6.2. Description of the system (in particular if the system uses steering or braking)
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/47  
ANNEX II 
SAFETY AUDIT
1.
General
1.1.
This Annex defines the special requirements for documentation, fault strategy and verification with respect to the 
safety aspects of electronic control system(s) and complex electronic vehicle control system(s) of the emergency 
lane-keeping system.
1.1.1.
Electronic control systems are commonly controlled by software and are built from discrete functional 
components such as sensors, electronic control units and actuators and connected by transmission links. They 
may include mechanical, electro-pneumatic or electro-hydraulic elements.
1.2.
This Annex does not specify the performance criteria for the ‘The System’ covered by this Regulation but covers 
the methodology applied to the design process and the information which must be disclosed to the Technical 
Service, for type approval purposes.
1.3.
This information shall show that ‘The System’ respects, under non-fault and fault conditions, all the appropriate 
performance requirements specified in Part 2 of Annex I and that it is designed to operate in such a way that it 
does not induce safety critical risks.
2.
Documentation
2.1.
Requirements
The manufacturer shall provide a documentation package which gives access to the basic design of ‘The System’
and the means by which it is linked to other vehicle systems or by which it directly controls output variables. The 
function(s) of ‘The System’, including the control strategies, and the safety concept, as laid down by the 
manufacturer, shall be explained. Documentation shall be brief, yet provide evidence that the design and 
development has had the benefit of expertise from all the system fields which are involved. For periodic 
roadworthiness tests, the documentation shall describe how the current operational status of ‘The System’ can be 
checked.
The Technical Service shall assess the documentation package to show that ‘The System’:
(a) is designed to operate, under non-fault and fault conditions, in such a way that it does not induce safety critical 
risks;
(b) respects, under non-fault and fault conditions, all the appropriate performance requirements specified 
elsewhere in this Regulation; and
(c) was developed according to the development process/method declared by the manufacturer and that this 
includes at least the steps listed in point 2.4.4.
2.1.1.
Documentation shall be made available in two parts:
(a) The formal documentation package for the approval, containing the material listed in point 2. (with the 
exception of that of point 2.4.4.) which shall be supplied to the Technical Service at the time of submission of 
the type approval application. This documentation package shall be used by the Technical Service as the basic 
reference for the verification process set out in point 3. The Technical Service shall ensure that this 
documentation package remains available for a period determined in agreement with the Approval 
Authority. This period shall be at least 10 years counted from the time when production of the vehicle is 
definitely discontinued.
(b) Additional material and analysis data of point 2.4.4. which shall be retained by the manufacturer, but made 
open for inspection at the time of type approval. The manufacturer shall ensure that this material and 
analysis data remains available for a period of 10 years counted from the time when production of the 
vehicle is definitely discontinued.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/48                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
2.2.
A description shall be provided which gives a simple explanation of all the functions including control strategies 
of ‘The System’ and the methods employed to achieve the objectives, including a statement of the mechanism(s) 
by which control is exercised.
Any described function that can be over-ridden shall be identified and a further description of the changed 
rationale of the function’s operation provided.
2.2.1.
A list of all input and sensed variables shall be provided and the working range of these defined, along with a 
description of how each variable affects system behaviour.
2.2.2.
A list of all output variables which are controlled by ‘The System’ shall be provided and an indication given, in 
each case, of whether the control is direct or via another vehicle system. The range over which ‘The System’ is 
likely to exercise control on each output variable shall be defined.
2.2.3.
Limits defining the boundaries of functional operation (i.e. the external physical limits within which the system is 
able to maintain control) shall be stated where appropriate to system performance.
2.3.
System layout and schematics.
2.3.1.
Inventory of components.
A list shall be provided, collating all the units of ‘The System’ and mentioning the other vehicle systems which are 
needed to achieve the control function in question.
An outline schematic showing these units in combination, shall be provided with both the equipment distribution 
and the interconnections made clear.
2.3.2.
Functions of the units
The function of each unit of ‘The System’ shall be outlined and the signals linking it with other units or with other 
vehicle systems shall be shown. This may be provided by a labelled block diagram or other schematic, or by a 
description aided by such a diagram.
2.3.3.
Interconnections within ‘The System’ shall be shown by a circuit diagram for the electric transmission links, by a 
piping diagram for pneumatic or hydraulic transmission equipment and by a simplified diagrammatic layout for 
mechanical linkages. The transmission links both to and from other systems shall also be shown.
2.3.4.
There shall be a clear correspondence between transmission links and the signals carried between units. Priorities 
of signals on multiplexed data paths shall be stated wherever priority may be an issue affecting performance or 
safety.
2.3.5.
Identification of units
Each unit shall be clearly and unambiguously identifiable (e.g. by marking for hardware and marking or software 
output for software content) to provide corresponding hardware and documentation association.
Where functions are combined within a single unit or indeed within a single computer, but shown in multiple 
blocks in the block diagram for clarity and ease of explanation, only a single hardware identification marking 
shall be used. The manufacturer shall, by the use of this identification, affirm that the equipment supplied 
conforms to the corresponding document.
2.3.5.1. The identification defines the hardware and software version and, where the latter changes such as to alter the 
function of the Unit as far as this Regulation is concerned, this identification shall also be changed.
2.4.
Safety concept of the manufacturer
2.4.1.
The manufacturer shall provide a statement which affirms that the strategy chosen to achieve ‘The System’
objectives will not, under non-fault conditions, prejudice the safe operation of the vehicle.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/49  
2.4.2.
In respect of software employed in ‘The System’, the outline architecture shall be explained and the design 
methods and tools used shall be identified. The manufacturer shall show evidence of the means by which they 
determined the realisation of the system logic, during the design and development process.
2.4.3.
The manufacturer shall provide the Technical Service with an explanation of the design provisions built into ‘The 
System’ so as to generate safe operation under fault conditions. Possible design provisions for failure in ‘The 
System’ are for example:
(a) fall-back to operation using a partial system;
(b) change-over to a separate back-up system;
(c) removal of the high level function.
In case of a failure, the driver shall be warned for example by warning signal or message display. When the system 
is not deactivated by the driver, e.g. by turning the ignition (run) switch to ‘off’, or by switching off that particular 
function if a special switch is provided for that purpose, the warning shall be present as long as the fault condition 
persists.
2.4.3.1. If the chosen provision selects a partial performance mode of operation under certain fault conditions, then these 
conditions shall be stated and the resulting limits of effectiveness defined.
2.4.3.2. If the chosen provision selects a second (back-up) means to realise the vehicle control system objective, the 
principles of the change-over mechanism, the logic and level of redundancy and any built in back-up checking 
features shall be explained and the resulting limits of back-up effectiveness defined.
2.4.3.3. If the chosen provision selects the removal of the higher level electronic control function, all the corresponding 
output control signals associated with this function shall be inhibited, and in such a manner as to limit the 
transition disturbance.
2.4.4.
The documentation shall be supported, by an analysis which shows, in overall terms, how the system will behave 
on the occurrence of any of those hazards or faults which will have a bearing on vehicle control performance or 
safety.
The chosen analytical approach(es) shall be established and maintained by the Manufacturer and shall be made 
open for inspection by the Technical Service at the time of the type approval.
The Technical Service shall perform an assessment of the application of the analytical approach(es). The 
assessment shall include:
(a) Inspection of the safety approach at the concept (vehicle) level with confirmation that it includes 
consideration of:
(i)
interactions with other vehicle systems;
(ii)
malfunctions of the system, within the scope of this Regulation;
(iii) for the functions referred to in point 2.2.:
— situations when a system free from faults may create safety critical risks (e.g. due to a lack of or wrong 
comprehension of the vehicle environment),
— reasonably foreseeable misuse by the driver,
— intentional modification of the system.
This approach shall be based on a hazard/risk analysis appropriate to system safety.
(b) Inspection of the safety approach at the system level. This may be based on a Failure Mode and Effect Analysis 
(FMEA), a Fault Tree Analysis (FTA) or any similar process appropriate to system safety.
(c) Inspection of the validation plans and results. This shall include validation testing appropriate for validation, 
for example, Hardware in the Loop (HIL) testing, vehicle on-road operational testing, or any other testing 
appropriate for validation.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/50                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
The assessment shall consist of spot checks of selected hazards and faults to establish that argumentation 
supporting the safety concept is understandable and logical and validation plans are suitable and have been 
completed.
The Technical Service may perform or may require to perform tests as specified in point 3. to verify the safety 
concept.
2.4.4.1. This documentation shall itemize the parameters being monitored and shall set out, for each fault condition of the 
type defined in point 2.4.4., the warning signal to be given to the driver and/or to service/technical inspection 
personnel.
2.4.4.2. This documentation shall describe the measures in place to ensure the ‘The System’ does not prejudice the safe 
operation of the vehicle when the performance of ‘The System’ is affected by environmental conditions e.g. 
climatic, temperature, dust ingress, water ingress, ice packing.
3.
Verification and test
3.1.
The functional operation of ‘The System’, as laid out in the documents required in point 2., shall be tested as 
follows:
3.1.1.
Verification of the function of ‘The System’
The Technical Service shall verify ‘The System’ under non-fault conditions by testing a number of selected 
functions from those described by the manufacturer in point 2.2.
For complex electronic systems, these tests shall include scenarios whereby a declared function is overridden.
3.1.1.1. The verification results shall correspond with the description, including the control strategies, provided by the 
manufacturer in point 2.2.
3.1.2.
Verification of the safety concept of point 2.4.
The reaction of ‘The System’ shall be checked under the influence of a failure in any individual unit by applying 
corresponding output signals to electrical units or mechanical elements in order to simulate the effects of internal 
faults within the unit. The Technical Service shall conduct this check for at least one individual unit, but shall not 
check the reaction of ‘The System’ to multiple simultaneous failures of individual units.
The Technical Service shall verify that these tests include aspects that may have an impact on vehicle 
controllability and user information (HMI aspects).
4.
Reporting by Technical Service
Reporting of the assessment by the Technical Service shall be performed in such a manner that allows traceability, 
e.g. versions of documents inspected are coded and listed in the records of the Technical Service.
An example of a possible layout for the assessment form from the Technical Service to the Type Approval 
Authority is given in the Appendix.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/51  
Appendix 
Model assessment form for ELKS
Test report No:
1.
Identification.
1.1.
Vehicle make:
1.2
Type
1.3
Means of identification of type if marked on the vehicle:
1.4.
Location of that marking:
1.5.
Manufacturer’s name and address:
1.6.
If applicable, name and address of manufacturer’s representative:
1.7.
Manufacturer’s formal documentation package:
Documentation reference No:
Date of original issue:
Date of latest update:
2.
Test vehicle(s)/system(s) description
2.1.
General description:
2.2.
Description of all the control functions of ‘The System’, and methods of operation:
2.3.
Description of the components and diagrams of the interconnections within ‘The System’:
2.4.
General description:
2.5.
Description of all the control functions of ‘The System’, and methods of operation:
2.6.
Description of the components and diagrams of the interconnections within “The System
3.
Manufacturer’s safety concept
3.1.
Description of signal flow and operating data and their priorities:
3.2.
Manufacturer’s declaration:
The manufacturer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .affirm(s) that the strategy chosen to achieve‘The System’, objectives will not, under non-fault 
conditions, prejudice the safe operation of the vehicle.
3.3.
Software outline architecture and the design methods and tools used:
3.4.
Explanation of design provisions built into ‘The System’ under fault conditions:
3.5.
Documented analyses of the behaviour of ‘The System’ under individual hazard or fault conditions:
3.6.
Description of the measures in place for environmental conditions:
3.7.
Provisions for the periodic roadworthiness test of ‘The System’:
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 133/52                                                                                                                                         
20.4.2021  
3.8.
Results of ‘The System’ verification test, referred to in point 3.1.1. of Annex II to Commission Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2021/646 (1).
3.9.
Results of safety concept verification test, referred to in point 3.1.2. of Annex II to Implementing Regulation (EU) 
2021/646.
3.10. Date of test:
3.11. This test has been carried out and the results reported in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2021/646, as last 
amended by Regulation (EU) 2021/646
Technical Service carrying out the test
Signed: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Date: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.12. Comments:
(1) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/646 of 19 April 2021 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 
2019/2144 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards uniform procedures and technical specifications for the type- 
approval of motor vehicles with regard to their emergency lane-keeping systems (ELKS) (OJ L 133, 20.4.2021, p. 31).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
20.4.2021                                                                                                                                         
L 133/53  
