I
(Legislative acts)
REGULATIONS
REGULATION (EU) 2021/692 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
of 28 April 2021
establishing the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme and repealing Regulation (EU) 
No 1381/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EU) 
No 390/2014 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 16(2), Article 19(2), 
Article 21(2), Article 24, Article 167, and Article 168 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions (2),
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (3),
Whereas:
(1)
In accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU), the Union is founded on the values of respect 
for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights 
of persons belonging to minorities. Those values are common to the Member States in a society in which pluralism, 
non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail. Article 3 TEU 
further specifies that the Union’s aim is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples and that it is 
to respect its rich cultural and linguistic diversity, and to ensure that Europe’s cultural heritage is safeguarded and 
enhanced. Those values are further reaffirmed and articulated in the rights, freedoms and principles enshrined in 
the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (the ‘Charter’).
(2)
It is crucial that those rights and values continue to be actively cultivated, protected, promoted, enforced and shared 
among the citizens and peoples and that they remain at the heart of the Union project, given that a deterioration in 
the protection of those rights and values in any Member State can have detrimental effects on the Union as a whole. 
Provision should therefore be made in the general budget of the Union for a new Justice, Rights and Values Fund, 
comprising the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme and the Justice Programme established by 
Regulation (EU) 2021/693 of the European Parliament and the Council (4). At a time when European societies are 
confronted with extremism, radicalism and divisions, and space for independent civil society is shrinking, it is more 
(1) OJ C 62, 15.2.2019, p. 178.
(2) OJ C 461, 21.12.2018, p. 196.
(3) Position of the European Parliament of 17 April 2019 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and position of the Council at first 
reading of 19 April 2021 (not yet published in the Official Journal). Position of the European Parliament of 28 April 2021 (not yet 
published in the Official Journal).
(4) Regulation (EU) 2021/693 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 April 2021 establishing the Justice Programme and 
repealing Regulation (EU) No 1382/2013 (see page 21 of this Official Journal).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                            
L 156/1  
important than ever to promote, strengthen and defend justice, rights and the Union values of respect for human 
dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. This will have profound and 
direct implications for political, social, cultural and economic life in the Union. As part of the new Justice, Rights 
and Values Fund, the Justice Programme, in line with the 2014–2020 Justice Programme established by Regulation 
(EU) No 1382/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (5), will continue to support the further 
development of a Union area of justice based on the rule of law, the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, 
mutual recognition and mutual trust, access to justice, and cross-border cooperation.
The Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme (the ‘Programme’) will bring together the Rights, Equality and 
Citizenship Programme for 2014–2020 established by Regulation (EU) No 1381/2013 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council (6) and the ‘Europe for Citizens’ programme established by Council Regulation (EU) 
No 390/2014 (7) (the ‘predecessor Programmes’).
(3)
The Programme should be established for a period of seven years to align its duration with that of the multiannual 
financial framework laid down in Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 (8).
(4)
The Justice, Rights and Values Fund and its two underlying funding programmes will focus on persons and entities 
which contribute to making our common values and rich diversity as well as rights and equality alive and vibrant. 
The ultimate objective is to nurture and sustain a rights-based, equal, open, pluralist, inclusive and democratic 
society. That includes a vibrant and empowered civil society, encouraging people’s democratic, civic and social 
participation, and cultivating the rich diversity of European society on the basis of our common values, history and 
memory. Article 11 TEU requires that the Union institutions maintain an open, transparent and regular dialogue 
with civil society and, by appropriate means, give citizens and representative associations the opportunity to make 
known and publicly exchange their views in all areas of Union action.
(5)
An open, transparent and regular dialogue with the beneficiaries of the Programme and other relevant stakeholders 
should be established by setting up a Civil Dialogue Group. The Civil Dialogue Group should be an open and 
informal forum for discussion and should contribute to the exchange of experiences and good practices and to the 
discussion of policy developments within the areas and objectives covered by the Programme and related areas. The 
Civil Dialogue Group should not have any responsibility regarding the management of the Programme.
(6)
By building on and further developing the positive experiences of the predecessor Programmes, the Programme 
should allow for synergies to be developed in order to tackle the challenges that are common to the promotion and 
protection of Union values, and in order to reach the critical dimension necessary to have concrete results in the 
field. This will make it possible to fully exploit the potential for synergies in order to more effectively support the 
policy areas covered and to increase the potential of the related policies to reach persons and civil society, aiming at 
a balanced geographical distribution. To be effective, the Programme should take into account the specific nature of 
the different policies, their different target groups and their particular needs through tailor-made and targeted 
approaches.
(5) Regulation (EU) No 1382/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a Justice 
Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 (OJ L 354, 28.12.2013, p. 73).
(6) Regulation (EU) No 1381/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a Rights, Equality 
and Citizenship Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 (OJ L 354, 28.12.2013, p. 62).
(7) Council Regulation (EU) No 390/2014 of 14 April 2014 establishing the ‘Europe for Citizens’ programme for the period 2014-2020 
(OJ L 115, 17.4.2014, p. 3).
(8) Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 of 17 December 2020 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 
2021 to 2027 (OJ L 433I, 22.12.2020, p. 11).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/2                                                                                                                                             
5.5.2021  
(7)
Full respect for and promotion of the rule of law and democracy are fundamental in building citizens’ trust in the 
Union and in ensuring mutual trust among Member States. By promoting rights and values, the Programme will 
contribute to the construction of a more democratic Union, respect for the rule of law and democratic dialogue, 
transparency and good governance, including in cases where space for civil society is shrinking.
(8)
In order to bring the Union closer to its citizens and to foster democratic participation, a variety of actions and 
coordinated efforts are necessary. European citizenship and European identity should be developed and advanced 
by encouraging citizens’ understanding of the policy-making process, and by promoting civic engagement in the 
actions of the Union. Furthermore, bringing citizens together through town-twinning projects and networks of 
towns and supporting civil society organisations at local, regional, national and transnational level in the areas 
covered by the Programme will contribute to increasing citizens’ engagement in society and ultimately to their 
active involvement in the democratic life of the Union. At the same time, supporting activities that promote mutual 
understanding, intercultural dialogue, cultural and linguistic diversity, social inclusion and respect for others fosters a 
sense of belonging to the Union and of a common citizenship under a European identity, based on a shared 
understanding of our common European values, culture, history and heritage. The promotion of a greater sense of 
belonging to the Union and of Union values is particularly important among citizens of its outermost regions 
because of their remoteness and distance from continental Europe.
(9)
Remembrance activities and critical reflection on Europe’s historical memory are necessary to make citizens, in 
particular young persons, aware of their common history and values as the foundation for a common future. 
Remembrance activities should reflect on the causes of totalitarian regimes in Europe’s modern history, in 
particular Nazism, which led to the Holocaust; fascism; Stalinism and totalitarian communist regimes, and should 
commemorate the victims of their crimes. They should also encompass activities concerning other defining 
moments and reference points in recent European history. The relevance of historical, social, cultural and 
intercultural factors should also be taken into account in order to create a European identity based on common 
values and a sense of common belonging.
(10)
Citizens should be more aware of their rights deriving from citizenship of the Union and they should feel at ease 
about living, travelling, studying, working and volunteering in another Member State. They should feel able to enjoy 
and exercise all of their citizenship rights and to place their trust in equal access, full enforceability and protection of 
their rights without any discrimination, no matter where in the Union they happen to be. Civil society needs to be 
supported in promoting, safeguarding and raising awareness of Union values and in contributing to the effective 
enjoyment of rights under Union law.
(11)
Gender equality is a fundamental value and an objective of the Union. Yet overall progress on gender equality has 
been stagnating. Discrimination against and unequal treatment of women and girls, as well as various forms of 
violence against them, violate their fundamental rights and prevent their full political, social and economic 
participation in society. In addition, the existence of political, structural and cultural barriers hinders the 
achievement of real gender equality. The promotion of gender equality and gender mainstreaming in all activities of 
the Union is therefore a core task for the Union and a driver for economic growth and social development, and 
should be supported by the Programme. Actively tackling stereotypes and addressing silent and intersectional 
discrimination are of particular importance. Equal access to work, equal participation in the labour market and the 
elimination of barriers to career progression in all sectors, for example the judiciary and sectors related to science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics, are pillars of gender equality. Focus should also be placed on work-life 
balance and on the equal sharing between women and men of unpaid household tasks and care for children, the 
elderly and other dependents, as these are matters which are intrinsically related to the achievement of equal 
economic independence and participation, and to the achievement of equality between women and men.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                            
L 156/3  
(12)
Gender-based violence and violence against groups at risk (children, young persons and other groups at risk such as 
LGBTIQ persons, and persons with disabilities) constitute a serious violation of fundamental rights and persist 
throughout the Union, in all social and economic contexts, with serious repercussions for victims’ physical, mental 
and psychological health and for society as a whole. Gender-based violence and harassment in both the domestic 
and public spheres affect women most significantly. Combating such violence and harassment is therefore a key 
action in promoting gender equality. The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence 
against women and domestic violence (the Istanbul Convention) defines violence against women as all acts of 
gender-based violence that result in, or are likely to result in, physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or 
suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring 
in public or in private life. Combating gender-based violence requires a multi-dimensional approach and includes 
addressing its legal, economic, educational and health aspects. There is also a need to actively tackle gender 
stereotypes from an early age, as well as all forms of hate speech and online violence. In this context, it remains 
essential to support women’s rights organisations and other actors working in this area. Children, young persons 
and other groups at risk, such as LGBTIQ persons and persons with disabilities, are also at an increased risk of being 
subject to violence, particularly within the settings of family and intimate relationships.
Action should be taken to promote the rights of persons at risk – in particular the rights of children, including those 
orphaned, whether as a result of domestic crimes or otherwise, and other particularly vulnerable groups of children 
– and to contribute to their protection and ensure their rights to development and dignity. Combating all forms of 
violence, in particular gender-based violence, promoting its prevention, and protecting and supporting its victims 
are Union priorities which help individuals enjoy their fundamental rights and contribute to gender equality. Those 
priorities should be supported by the Programme. The importance of granting funding under the Programme to 
civil society organisations promoting gender equality, combating gender-based violence and promoting women’s 
rights, including sexual and reproductive health and rights and the rights of LGBTIQ persons, in all Member States 
is emphasised. All those activities seek to promote key values of the Union and ought therefore to be supported 
throughout the Union, without exception.
(13)
Strong political will and coordinated action based on the methods and results of the previous Daphne programmes, 
the Rights, Equality and Citizenship Programme and the Justice Programme are necessary in order to prevent and 
combat all forms of violence and to protect victims. In particular, Daphne funding to prevent and combat violence 
against children, young people and women and to protect victims has, since its launch in 1997, been a genuine 
success, in terms of both its popularity with stakeholders (public authorities, academic institutions and non- 
governmental organisations) and the effectiveness of the projects funded. The Daphne programme has funded 
projects to raise awareness, to provide support services to victims and to support the activities of civil society 
organisations working on the ground. It has addressed all forms of violence, including domestic violence, sexual 
violence, trafficking in human beings, stalking, and harmful traditional practices, such as female genital mutilation, 
as well as newly emerging forms of violence, such as cyber-bullying and online harassment. Considering the still 
alarming number of victims of gender-based violence, it is important to continue all these actions with an 
independent budget allocation for the activities implementing the specific objective of preventing and combating all 
forms of gender-based violence under Daphne, and to take into due consideration in the implementation of the 
Programme the results and lessons learned from them.
(14)
Non-discrimination is a fundamental principle of the Union. Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European 
Union (TFEU) provides for action to combat discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, 
disability, age or sexual orientation. Non-discrimination is also enshrined in Article 21 of the Charter. The specific 
features of diverse forms of discrimination, including direct, indirect and structural discrimination, should be taken into 
account and appropriate action should be developed in parallel to prevent and combat discrimination on one or more 
grounds. The Programme should support actions to prevent and combat all forms of discrimination, racism, 
xenophobia, afrophobia, anti-Semitism, anti-Gypsyism, anti-Muslim hatred, and allforms of intolerance, including 
homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, interphobia and intolerance based on gender identity, both online and offline, as 
well as intolerance of persons belonging to minorities, taking into account multiple discrimination. In that context, 
particular attention should also be devoted to preventing and combating all forms of violence, hatred, segregation and 
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/4                                                                                                                                             
5.5.2021  
stigmatisation, as well as to combating bullying, harassment and intolerant treatment. The Programme should be 
implemented in a mutually reinforcing manner with other Union activities that have the same objectives, in particular 
those referred to in Commission communication of 5 April 2011 entitled ‘An EU Framework for National Roma 
Integration Strategies up to 2020’ and in Council Recommendation of 9 December 2013 on effective Roma integration 
measures in the Member States (9).
(15)
Social and environmental barriers as well as lack of accessibility hinder the full and effective participation of persons with 
disabilities in society on an equal basis with others. Persons with disabilities face barriers in relation to, among other 
things, accessing the labour market, benefiting from an inclusive and quality education, avoiding poverty and social 
exclusion, enjoying access to cultural initiatives and media, and exercising political rights. As Parties to the United 
Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Union and all the Member States have undertaken to 
promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons 
with disabilities. That Convention has become an integral part of the Union legal order.
(16)
The right to respect for private and family life, home and communications is a fundamental right enshrined in 
Article 7 of the Charter. The protection of personal data is a fundamental right enshrined in Article 16 TFEU and 
Article 8 of the Charter. Compliance with the rules for the protection of personal data is subject to control by 
independent supervisory authorities. The Union’s legal framework, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council (10) and Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (11), lays down provisions to ensure that the right to protection of personal data is effectively enforced. 
Those legal instruments entrust the national data protection supervisory authorities with the task of promoting 
public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules, safeguards and rights that relate to the processing of 
personal data. The Union should be able to conduct awareness-raising activities, including through support for civil 
society organisations advocating for the protection of personal data in line with Union standards, and to carry out 
studies and other relevant activities, given the importance of the right to the protection of personal data at a time of 
rapid technological development.
(17)
Article 24 TFEU obliges the European Parliament and the Council to adopt provisions for the procedures and 
conditions required for a citizen’s initiative within the meaning of Article 11 TEU. This has been done by adopting 
Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council (12). The Programme should support the 
financing of technical and organisational support for the implementation of that Regulation, thereby underpinning 
the exercise by citizens of the right to launch and support European citizens’ initiatives.
(18)
In accordance with Articles 8 and 10 TFEU, the Programme in all its activities should support gender mainstreaming 
and the mainstreaming of non-discrimination. An interim and a final evaluation of the Programme should evaluate 
gender impacts to assess the extent to which it contributes to gender equality and to assess whether it is having 
unintended negative impacts on gender equality. In this context and while taking into account the different nature 
and size of the activities of the different strands of the Programme, it will be important for individual data collected 
by project promoters to be broken down by sex whenever possible. It is also important to provide information to 
applicants on how to take gender equality into account, including information on the use of gender mainstreaming 
tools such as gender budgeting and gender impact assessments where necessary. Gender balance should be 
considered when consulting experts and stakeholders.
(9) OJ C 378, 24.12.2013, p. 1.
(10) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data 
Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1).
(11) Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or 
prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89).
(12) Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the European citizens’ initiative (OJ L 
130, 17.5.2019, p. 55).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                            
L 156/5  
(19)
Article 3 TEU requires the Union, inter alia, to promote the protection of the rights of the child, in line with 
Article 24 of the Charter and with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
(20)
In accordance with Union acts on equal treatment, the Member States have set up independent bodies for the 
promotion of equal treatment (‘equality bodies’) in order to combat discrimination based on race and ethnic origin 
as well as gender. However, many Member States have gone beyond the requirements of those Union acts and have 
ensured that equality bodies can also deal with discrimination based on other grounds, such as language, age, sex 
characteristics, gender identity and gender diversity, sexual orientation, religion and belief, and disability. Equality 
bodies play a key role in promoting equality and ensuring the effective application of equal treatment legislation, in 
particular by providing independent assistance to victims of discrimination, conducting independent surveys 
concerning discrimination, publishing independent reports and making recommendations on any issue relating to 
discrimination in their respective Member States. It is essential that the work of equality bodies be coordinated at 
Union level in this respect.
The European Network of Equality Bodies (Equinet) was created in 2007 and is composed of the national equality 
bodies as provided for by Council Directives 2000/43/EC (13) and 2004/113/EC (14) and by Directives 2006/54/EC
(15) and 2010/41/EU (16) of the European Parliament and of the Council. On 22 June 2018, the Commission 
adopted Recommendation (EU) 2018/951 (17) on standards for equality bodies, covering their mandate, 
independence, effectiveness, and coordination and cooperation. Equinet is in an exceptional situation, being the 
only entity which ensures coordination of activities between equality bodies. That coordination by Equinet is of key 
importance for the effective implementation of Union anti-discrimination law in the Member States and should be 
supported by the Programme.
(21)
In order to increase user-friendly accessibility and provide impartial guidance, practical information and assistance to 
applicants, stakeholders and beneficiaries with respect to all aspects of the Programme, Member States should be 
able to establish Programme contact points. Programme contact points should carry out their functions 
independently and without interference from public authorities in their decision-making. It is important that 
Member States be able to choose the most appropriate way of managing such Programme contact points, including 
through public authorities, civil society organisations or consortia thereof. Programme contact points ought not to 
have any responsibility regarding the management of the Programme.
(22)
Independent human rights bodies and civil society organisations play an essential role in promoting, safeguarding 
and raising awareness of Union common values, and in contributing to the effective enjoyment of rights under 
Union law, including the Charter. As reflected in the European Parliament resolution of 19 April 2018 (18), an 
increase in funding and adequate financial support are key to the development of a conducive and sustainable 
environment for civil society organisations in order to strengthen their role and enable them to perform their 
functions independently and effectively. The Union funding should complement efforts at national level by 
contributing to supporting, empowering and building the capacity of independent civil society organisations which 
are active in the promotion of rights and values and whose activities contribute to the strategic enforcement of 
rights under Union law, including the Charter, inter alia through advocacy such as strategic litigation, campaigning, 
communication and other watchdog activities, as well as to promoting, safeguarding and raising awareness of 
Union values at local, regional, national and transnational level. The Programme should be implemented in a user- 
(13) Council Directive 2000/43/EC of 29 June 2000 implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial 
or ethnic origin (OJ L 180, 19.7.2000, p. 22).
(14) Council Directive 2004/113/EC of 13 December 2004 implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in 
the access to and supply of goods and services (OJ L 373, 21.12.2004, p. 37).
(15) Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal 
opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation (OJ L 204, 26.7.2006, p. 23).
(16) Directive 2010/41/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 July 2010 on the application of the principle of equal 
treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing Council Directive 86/613/EEC 
(OJ L 180, 15.7.2010, p. 1).
(17) Commission Recommendation (EU) 2018/951 of 22 June 2018 on standards for equality bodies (OJ L 167, 4.7.2018, p. 28).
(18) OJ C 390, 18.11.2019, p. 117.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/6                                                                                                                                             
5.5.2021  
friendly way, for example through a user-friendly application and reporting procedure. Particular attention should be 
paid to the accessibility of the Programme for civil society organisations at local, regional, national and transnational 
level, including local grassroots civil society organisations, as well as to the capacity of beneficiaries. This should 
include consideration of the provision of financial support to third parties, where appropriate.
(23)
The Commission should ensure overall consistency, complementarity and synergies with the work of Union bodies, 
offices and agencies, in particular the European Institute for Gender Equality and the European Union Agency for 
Fundamental Rights, and should take into account the work of other national and international actors in the areas 
covered by the Programme.
(24)
Subject to certain conditions the Programme should be open to the participation of members of the European Free 
Trade Association (EFTA) which are members of the European Economic Area (EEA). Acceding countries, candidate 
countries and potential candidate countries benefiting from a pre-accession strategy, countries covered by the 
European Neighbourhood Policy and other third countries should also be able to participate in the Programme.
(25)
In order to ensure the efficient allocation of funds from the general budget of the Union, it is necessary to ensure that 
all actions carried out under the Programme have Union added value, complement Member States’ actions and are 
consistent with other Union actions. Consistency, complementarity and synergies should be sought with funding 
programmes supporting policy areas which are closely interlinked, in particular with the Justice Programme, as well 
as with the Creative Europe Programme, established by Regulation (EU) XXXX/XXXX of the European Parliament 
and of the Council (19) and Erasmus+, established by Regulation (EU) XXXX/XXXX of the European Parliament and 
of the Council (20), in order to realise the potential of crossovers in the areas of culture, media, arts, education and 
creativity. It is necessary to create synergies with other Union funding programmes, in particular in the areas of 
employment and the fight against social exclusion, especially with the European Social Fund Plus, as well as in the 
areas of the internal market, enterprise, youth, health, citizenship, justice, migration, security, research, innovation, 
technology, industry, cohesion, tourism, external relations, trade and sustainable development.
(26)
This Regulation lays down a financial envelope for the entire duration of the Programme, which is to constitute the 
prime reference amount, within the meaning of point 18 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 16 December 2020
between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission on budgetary 
discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as well as on new own 
resources, including a roadmap towards the introduction of new own resources (21), for the European Parliament 
and the Council during the annual budgetary procedure.
(27)
In accordance with Article 193(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council (22) (the ‘Financial Regulation’), a grant may be awarded for an action which has already begun, provided 
that the applicant can demonstrate the need for starting the action prior to signature of the grant agreement. 
However, the costs incurred prior to the date of submission of the grant application are not eligible, except in duly 
justified exceptional cases. In order to avoid any disruption in Union support which could be prejudicial to Union’s 
(19) Regulation (EU) XXXX/XXXX of the European Parliament and of the Council of XXX establishing the Creative Europe Programme 
(2021 to 2027) and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1295/2013 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
(20) Regulation (EU) XXXX/XXXX of the European Parliament and of the Council of XXX establishing Erasmus+: the Union Programme for 
education and training, youth and sport and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1288/2013 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
(21) OJ L 433I, 22.12.2020, p. 28.
(22) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable 
to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, 
(EU) No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision 
No 541/2014/EU and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                            
L 156/7  
interests, it should be possible, for a limited period of time at the beginning of the multiannual financial framework 
2021-2027, that costs incurred in respect of actions supported under this Regulation which have already begun be 
considered eligible as of 1 January 2021, even if they were incurred before the grant application was submitted.
(28)
The Financial Regulation applies to the Programme. The Financial Regulation lays down rules on the implementation 
of the Union budget, including the rules on grants, prizes, procurement, indirect management, financial instruments, 
budgetary guarantees, financial assistance and the reimbursement of external experts.
(29)
The types of financing and the methods of implementation under this Regulation should be chosen on the basis of 
their capacity to achieve the specific objectives of the actions and to deliver results, taking into account in particular 
the costs of controls, the administrative burden, the capacity of relevant stakeholders and targeted beneficiaries, and 
the expected risk of non-compliance. This should include consideration of the use of lump sums, flat rates and unit 
costs, as well as financing not linked to costs as referred to in Article 125(1) of the Financial Regulation.
(30)
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council (23) and Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 (24), (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 (25) and 
(EU) 2017/1939 (26), the financial interests of the Union are to be protected by means of proportionate measures, 
including measures relating to the prevention, detection, correction and investigation of irregularities, including 
fraud, to the recovery of funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used and, where appropriate, to the imposition of 
administrative penalties. In particular, in accordance with Regulations (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 and (EU, Euratom) 
No 883/2013, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) has the power to carry out administrative investigations, 
including on-the-spot checks and inspections, with a view to establishing whether there has been fraud, corruption 
or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the Union. The European Public Prosecutor’s Office 
(EPPO) is empowered, in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1939, to investigate and prosecute criminal 
offences affecting the financial interests of the Union as provided for in Directive (EU) 2017/1371 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council (27).
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, any person or entity receiving Union funds is to fully cooperate in the 
protection of the financial interests of the Union, grant the necessary rights and access to the Commission, OLAF, 
the Court of Auditors and, in respect of those Member States participating in enhanced cooperation pursuant to 
Regulation (EU) 2017/1939, the EPPO, and ensure that any third parties involved in the implementation of Union 
funds grant equivalent rights.
(31)
Third countries which are members of the EEA may participate in Union programmes in the framework of the 
cooperation established under the Agreement on the European Economic Area (28), which provides for the 
implementation of the programmes on the basis of a decision adopted under that Agreement. Third countries may 
also participate on the basis of other legal instruments. A specific provision should be introduced in this Regulation 
requiring third countries to grant the necessary rights and access required for the authorising officer responsible, 
OLAF and the Court of Auditors to comprehensively exercise their respective competences.
(23) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 September 2013 concerning 
investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 (OJ L 248, 18.9.2013, p. 1).
(24) Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities financial 
interests (OJ L 312, 23.12.1995, p. 1).
(25) Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by 
the Commission in order to protect the European Communities’ financial interests against fraud and other irregularities (OJ L 292, 
15.11.1996, p. 2).
(26) Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 implementing enhanced cooperation on the establishment of the European 
Public Prosecutor’s Office (‘the EPPO’) (OJ L 283, 31.10.2017, p. 1).
(27) Directive (EU) 2017/1371 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2017 on the fight against fraud to the Union’s 
financial interests by means of criminal law (OJ L 198, 28.7.2017, p. 29).
(28) OJ L 1, 3.1.1994, p. 3.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/8                                                                                                                                             
5.5.2021  
(32)
Horizontal financial rules adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on the basis of Article 322 TFEU 
apply to this Regulation. Those rules are laid down in the Financial Regulation and determine in particular the 
procedure for establishing and implementing the budget through grants, procurement, prizes and indirect 
implementation, and provide for checks on the responsibility of financial actors. Rules adopted on the basis of 
Article 322 TFEU also include a general regime of conditionality for the protection of the Union budget.
(33)
Pursuant to Council Decision 2013/755/EU (29), persons and relevant public and/or private bodies and institutions in 
overseas countries and territories are eligible for funding subject to the rules and objectives of the Programme and 
possible arrangements applicable to the Member State to which the relevant overseas country or territory is linked.
(34)
Reflecting the importance of tackling climate change in line with the Union’s commitments to implement the Paris 
Agreement adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals, the Programme is intended to contribute to mainstreaming climate action and to 
the achievement of an overall target of 30 % of the Union budget expenditures supporting climate objectives and 
the ambition of 7,5 % of the Union budget reflecting biodiversity expenditures in 2024 and 10 % in 2026 
and 2027 while considering the existing overlaps between climate and biodiversity goals. The Programme ought to 
support activities that respect the climate and environmental standards and priorities of the Union and the ‘do no 
harm’ principle of the European Green Deal. Relevant actions ought to be identified during the Programme’s 
preparation and implementation, and be reassessed in the context of the relevant evaluations and review processes.
(35)
Pursuant to paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making (30), 
the Programme should be evaluated on the basis of information collected in accordance with specific monitoring 
requirements, while avoiding an administrative burden, in particular on Member States, and overregulation. Those 
requirements, where appropriate, should include measurable indicators as a basis for evaluating the effects of the 
Programme on the ground.
(36)
In order to ensure the effective assessment of the Programme’s progress towards the achievement of its objectives, 
the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU should be delegated to the Commission in respect of 
indicators as indicated in Articles 14 and 16 and Annex II. It is of particular importance that the Commission carry 
out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level, and that those consultations be 
conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on 
Better Law-Making. In particular, to ensure equal participation in the preparation of delegated acts, the European 
Parliament and the Council receive all documents at the same time as Member States’ experts, and their experts 
systematically have access to meetings of Commission expert groups dealing with the preparation of delegated acts.
(37)
In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Regulation, implementing powers should be 
conferred on the Commission. Those powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 
of the European Parliament and of the Council (31).
(38)
Since the objectives of this Regulation, namely to protect and promote rights and values as enshrined in the Treaties, 
the Charter and the applicable international human rights conventions, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the 
Member States but can rather, by reason of the scale and effect of the action, be better achieved at Union level, the 
Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 TEU. In 
accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what 
is necessary in order to achieve those objectives.
(29) Council Decision 2013/755/EU of 25 November 2013 on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the European 
Union (Overseas Association Decision) (OJ L 344, 19.12.2013, p. 1).
(30) OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1.
(31) Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general 
principles concerning mechanisms for control by the Member States of the Commission’s exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 
28.2.2011, p. 13).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                            
L 156/9  
(39)
Regulations (EU) No 1381/2013 and (EU) No 390/2014 should therefore be repealed.
(40)
In order to ensure continuity in providing support in the relevant policy area and to allow implementation to start 
from the beginning of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, this Regulation should enter into force as a 
matter of urgency and should apply, with retroactive effect, from 1 January 2021,
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
Subject matter
This Regulation establishes the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme (the ‘Programme’) for the duration of the 
multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, as laid down in Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093.
It lays down the objectives of the Programme, the budget for the period 2021–2027, the forms of Union funding and the 
rules for providing such funding.
Article 2
Programme objectives
1.
The general objective of the Programme is to protect and promote rights and values as enshrined in the Treaties, the 
Charter and the applicable international human rights conventions, in particular by supporting civil society organisations 
and other stakeholders active at local, regional, national and transnational level, and by encouraging civic and democratic 
participation, in order to sustain and further develop open, rights-based, democratic, equal and inclusive societies which 
are based on the rule of law.
2.
Within the general objective set out in paragraph 1, the Programme shall have the following specific objectives, which 
correspond to strands:
(a) to protect and promote Union values (Union values strand);
(b) to promote rights, non-discrimination and equality, including gender equality, and to advance gender mainstreaming 
and the mainstreaming of non-discrimination (equality, rights and gender equality strand);
(c) to promote citizens’ engagement and participation in the democratic life of the Union and exchanges between citizens 
of different Member States, and to raise awareness of their common European history (citizens’ engagement and 
participation strand);
(d) to fight violence, including gender-based violence (Daphne strand).
Article 3
Union values strand
Within the general objective set out in Article 2(1) and within the specific objective set out in point (a) of Article 2(2), the 
Programme shall focus on protecting, promoting and raising awareness of rights by providing financial support to civil 
society organisations which are active at local, regional, national and transnational level in promoting and cultivating those 
rights, thereby also strengthening the protection and promotion of Union values and respect for the rule of law and 
contributing to the construction of a more democratic Union, democratic dialogue, transparency and good governance.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/10                                                                                                                                           
5.5.2021  
Article 4
Equality, rights and gender equality strand
Within the general objective set out in Article 2(1) and within the specific objective set out in point (b) of Article 2(2), the 
Programme shall focus on:
(1) promoting equality and preventing and combating inequalities and discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, 
religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, and respecting the principle of non-discrimination on the 
grounds provided for in Article 21 of the Charter;
(2) supporting, advancing and implementing comprehensive policies aimed at:
(a) promoting women’s full enjoyment of rights; gender equality, including work-life balance; women’s empowerment; 
and gender mainstreaming;
(b) promoting non-discrimination and the mainstreaming thereof;
(c) combating racism, xenophobia and all forms of intolerance, including homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, 
interphobia and intolerance on the basis of gender identity, both online and offline;
(d) protecting and promoting the rights of the child;
(e) protecting and promoting the rights of persons with disabilities;
(3) protecting and promoting Union citizenship rights and the right to the protection of personal data.
Article 5
Citizens’ engagement and participation strand
Within the general objective set out in Article 2(1) and within the specific objective set out in point (c) of Article 2(2), the 
Programme shall focus on:
(1) supporting projects aimed at remembering defining moments in modern European history, such as the coming to 
power of authoritarian and totalitarian regimes, including the causes and consequences thereof, and projects aimed at 
raising awareness among European citizens of their common history, culture, cultural heritage and values, thereby 
enhancing their understanding of the Union, of its origins, purpose, diversity and achievements and of the importance 
of mutual understanding and tolerance;
(2) promoting citizens’ and representative associations’ participation in and contribution to the democratic and civic life of 
the Union by enabling them to make known and publicly exchange their views in all areas of Union action;
(3) promoting exchanges between citizens of different countries, in particular through town-twinning and networks of 
towns, so as to afford them practical experience of the richness and diversity of the common heritage of the Union 
and to make them aware that such richness and diversity constitute a solid foundation for a common future.
Article 6
Daphne strand
Within the general objective set out in Article 2(1) and within the specific objective set out in point (d) of Article 2(2), the 
Programme shall focus on:
(1) preventing and combating at all levels all forms of gender-based violence against women and girls and domestic 
violence, including by promoting the standards laid down in the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and 
combating violence against women and domestic violence (the Istanbul Convention);
(2) preventing and combating all forms of violence against children, young people and other groups at risk, such as 
LGBTIQ persons and persons with disabilities;
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                          
L 156/11  
(3) supporting and protecting all direct and indirect victims of the forms of violence referred to in points (1) and (2), such 
as the victims of domestic violence perpetrated within the family or within intimate relationships, including children 
orphaned as a result of domestic crimes, and supporting and ensuring the same level of protection throughout the 
Union for victims of gender-based violence.
Article 7
Budget
1.
The financial envelope for the implementation of the Programme for the period from 1 January 2021 to 
31 December 2027 shall be EUR 641 705 000 in current prices.
2.
As a result of the Programme-specific adjustment provided for in Article 5 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093, 
the amount set out in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be increased by an additional allocation of EUR 800 000 000
in 2018 prices as specified in Annex II to that Regulation.
3.
Within the amount set out in paragraph 1, the following indicative amounts shall be allocated to the following 
objectives:
(a) EUR 297 366 097 in current prices, i.e. 46,34 % of the financial envelope, for the specific objectives set out in point (a) 
of Article 2(2);
(b) EUR 169 410 120 in current prices, i.e. 26,4 %, of the financial envelope, for the specific objectives set out in points (b) 
and (d) of Article 2(2);
(c) EUR 174 928 783 in current prices, i.e. 27,26 % of the financial envelope, for the specific objectives set out in point (c) 
of Article 2(2).
4.
Within the amount set out in paragraph 2, the following indicative amounts shall be allocated to the following 
objectives:
(a) 43,00 %, up to EUR 344 000 000 in 2018 prices, for the specific objectives set out in point (a) of Article 2(2);
(b) 23,07 %, up to EUR 184 560 000 in 2018 prices, for the specific objectives set out in points (b) and (d) of Article 2(2);
(c) 23,93 %, up to EUR 191 440 000 in 2018 prices, for the specific objectives set out in point (c) of Article 2(2);
(d) 10,00 %, up to EUR 80 000 000 in 2018 prices, for any of the objectives set out in Article 2(2).
5.
Within the amounts set out in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 3 and points (a) and (b) of paragraph 4, at least 50 % 
shall be allocated to support activities carried out by civil society organisations, of which at least 40 % shall be allocated to 
local and regional civil society organisations.
6.
Within the amount set out in point (b) of paragraph 3 and point (b) of paragraph 4, at least 40 % shall be allocated to 
support activities to prevent and combat at all levels all forms of gender-based violence and at least 15 % to activities 
promoting women’s full enjoyment of rights; gender equality, including work-life balance; women’s empowerment; and 
gender mainstreaming.
7.
Within the amount set out in point (c) of paragraph 3 and point (c) of paragraph 4, at least 65 % shall be allocated to 
democratic participation and 15 % to remembrance activities.
8.
The Commission shall not depart from the allocated percentages of programme funds set out in paragraph 6 and 7 by 
more than ten percentage points.
9.
The amounts set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 may be allocated for technical and administrative assistance for the 
implementation of the Programme, such as preparatory, monitoring, control, audit and evaluation activities, including 
corporate information technology systems, studies, meetings of experts and communications on priorities and areas 
related to the general objectives of the Programme.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/12                                                                                                                                           
5.5.2021  
10.
In accordance with point (a) of the second subparagraph of Article 193(2) of the Financial Regulation, taking into 
account the delayed entry into force of this Regulation and in order to ensure continuity, for a limited period, costs 
incurred in respect of actions supported under this Regulation may be considered eligible as of 1 January 2021, even if 
they were incurred before the grant application was submitted.
11.
Resources allocated to Member States under shared management may, at the request of the Member State 
concerned, be transferred to the Programme subject to the conditions set out in Article 26 of a Regulation of the European 
Parliament and of the Council laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the 
European Social Fund Plus, the Cohesion Fund, the Just Transition Fund and the European Maritime, Fisheries and 
Aquaculture Fund and financial rules for those and for the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security 
Fund and the Instrument for Financial Support for Border Management and Visa Policy (the ‘Common Provisions 
Regulation for 2021-2027’). The Commission shall implement those resources directly in accordance with point (a) of the 
first subparagraph of Article 62(1) of the Financial Regulation or indirectly in accordance with point (c) of that 
subparagraph. Those resources shall be used for the benefit of the Member State concerned.
Article 8
Third countries associated to the Programme
The Programme shall be open to the participation of the following third countries:
(a) members of the EFTA which are members of the EEA, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Agreement 
on the European Economic Area;
(b) acceding countries, candidate countries and potential candidates, in accordance with the general principles and general 
terms and conditions for the participation of those countries in Union programmes established in the respective 
framework agreements and Association Council decisions or in similar agreements and in accordance with the specific 
conditions laid down in agreements between the Union and those countries;
(c) European Neighbourhood Policy countries, in accordance with the general principles and general terms and conditions 
for the participation of those countries in Union programmes established in the respective framework agreements and 
Association Council decisions or in similar agreements and in accordance with the specific conditions laid down in 
agreements between the Union and those countries;
(d) other third countries, in accordance with the conditions laid down in a specific agreement covering the participation of 
the third country to any Union programme, provided that the agreement:
(i)
ensures a fair balance as regards the contributions and benefits of the third country participating in the Union 
programmes;
(ii)
lays down the conditions of participation in the programmes, including the calculation of financial contributions 
to individual programmes, and their administrative costs;
(iii) does not confer on the third country any decision-making power in respect of the Union programme;
(iv) guarantees the rights of the Union to ensure sound financial management and to protect its financial interests.
The contributions referred to in point (d)(ii) of the first subparagraph shall constitute assigned revenues in accordance with 
Article 21(5) of the Financial Regulation.
Article 9
Implementation and forms of Union funding
1.
The Programme shall be implemented in direct management in accordance with the Financial Regulation or in 
indirect management by the bodies referred to in point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 62(1) thereof.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                          
L 156/13  
2.
The Programme may provide funding in any of the forms laid down in the Financial Regulation.
3.
Contributions to a mutual insurance mechanism may cover the risk associated with the recovery of funds due by 
recipients and shall be considered a sufficient guarantee under the Financial Regulation. The provisions laid down in Article 
37(7) of Regulation (EU) 2021/695 of the European Parliament and of the Council (32) shall apply.
Article 10
Types of action
Actions contributing to the achievement of a specific objective as set out in Article 2 may receive funding under this 
Regulation. In particular, activities listed in Annex I shall be eligible for funding.
Article 11
Civil Dialogue Group
The Commission shall set up a Civil Dialogue Group for the purpose of ensuring a regular, open and transparent dialogue 
with the beneficiaries of the Programme and other relevant stakeholders in order to exchange experiences and good 
practices and to discuss policy developments within the areas and objectives covered by the Programme and related areas.
CHAPTER II
GRANTS
Article 12
Grants
1.
Grants under the Programme shall be awarded and managed in accordance with Title VIII of the Financial Regulation.
2.
Members of the evaluation committee may be external experts.
Article 13
Cumulative and alternative funding
1.
An action that has received a contribution under the Programme may also receive a contribution from another Union 
programme, including funds under shared management, provided that the contributions do not cover the same costs. The 
rules of the relevant Union programme shall apply to the corresponding contribution to the action. The cumulative 
financing shall not exceed the total eligible costs of the action. The support from the different Union programmes may be 
calculated on a pro-rata basis in accordance with the documents setting out the conditions for support.
2.
Actions awarded a Seal of Excellence label under the Programme may receive support from the European Regional 
Development Fund or the European Social Fund Plus, in accordance with Article 73(4) of the Common Provisions 
Regulation for 2021-2027 if they comply with the following cumulative conditions:
(a) they have been assessed in a call for proposals under the Programme;
(32) Regulation (EU) 2021/695 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 April 2021 establishing Horizon Europe – the 
Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, laying down its rules for participation and dissemination, and repealing 
Regulations (EU) No 1290/2013 and (EU) No 1291/2013 (OJ L 170, 12.5.2021, p. 1).
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/14                                                                                                                                           
5.5.2021  
(b) they comply with the minimum quality requirements of that call for proposals;
(c) they cannot be financed under that call for proposals due to budgetary constraints.
Article 14
Eligible entities
1.
The eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall apply in addition to the criteria set out in 
Article 197 of the Financial Regulation.
2.
The following entities shall be eligible:
(a) any legal entity established in:
(i)
a Member State, or an overseas country or territory linked to it;
(ii) a third country associated to the Programme, except as regards the specific objective referred to in point (a) of 
Article 2(2);
(b) any legal entity created under Union law, or any international organisation.
3.
An operating grant may be awarded without a call for proposals to the European Network of National Equality Bodies 
(Equinet), under point (b) of Article 7(3) and point (b) of Article 7(4), to cover expenditure associated with Equinet’s 
permanent work programme.
CHAPTER III
PROGRAMMING, MONITORING, EVALUATION AND CONTROL
Article 15
Work programme
1.
The Programme shall be implemented by work programmes referred to in Article 110 of the Financial Regulation.
2.
The work programme shall be adopted by the Commission by means of an implementing act. That implementing act 
shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 22.
Article 16
Monitoring and reporting
Indicators to report on the progress of the Programme towards the achievement of the general and specific objectives laid 
down in Article 2 are set out in Annex II.
To ensure the effective assessment of the Programme’s progress towards the achievement of its objectives, the Commission 
is empowered to adopt delegated acts, in accordance with Article 18, to amend Annex II with regard to the indicators where 
considered necessary as well as to supplement this Regulation with provisions on the establishment of a monitoring and 
evaluation framework.
The performance reporting system shall ensure that data for monitoring the implementation and the results of the 
Programme are collected efficiently, effectively and in a timely manner.
To that end, proportionate reporting requirements shall be imposed on recipients of Union funds and, where appropriate, 
on Member States.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                          
L 156/15  
Article 17
Evaluation
1.
Evaluations of the Programme shall be carried out in a timely manner with a view to feeding into the decision-making 
process.
2.
The Commission shall carry out an interim evaluation of the Programme once there is sufficient information 
available about the implementation of the Programme, but no later than four years after the start of its implementation. 
The interim evaluation shall take into account the results of the evaluations of the long-term impact of the predecessor 
Programmes.
3.
The Commission shall carry out a final evaluation of the Programme at the end of its implementation, but no later 
than four years after the end of the period specified in Article 1.
4.
The Commission shall communicate the conclusions of the evaluations, accompanied by its observations, to the 
European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Article 18
Exercise of the delegation
1.
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Article 16 shall be conferred on the Commission until 31 December 
2027.
3.
The delegation of power referred to in Article 16 may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the 
Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect 
the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified 
therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
4.
Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance 
with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
5.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to 
the Council.
6.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 16 shall enter into force if no objection has been expressed either by the 
European Parliament or by the Council within a period of two months of notification of that act to the European Parliament 
and the Council, or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the 
Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by two months at the initiative of the European 
Parliament or of the Council.
Article 19
Protection of the financial interests of the Union
Where a third country participates in the Programme by means of a decision adopted pursuant to an international 
agreement or on the basis of any other legal instrument, the third country shall grant the necessary rights and access 
required for the authorising officer responsible, OLAF and the Court of Auditors to comprehensively exercise their 
respective competences. In the case of OLAF, such rights shall include the right to carry out investigations, including 
on-the-spot checks and inspections, as provided for in Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/16                                                                                                                                           
5.5.2021  
CHAPTER IV
TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 20
Information, communication and publicity
1.
The recipients of Union funding shall acknowledge the origin of those funds and ensure the visibility of the Union 
funding, in particular when promoting the actions and their results, by providing coherent, effective and proportionate 
targeted information to multiple audiences, including the media and the public.
2.
The Commission shall implement information and communication actions relating to the Programme, to actions 
taken pursuant to the Programme and to the results obtained.
3.
Financial resources allocated to the Programme shall also contribute to the corporate communication of the political 
priorities of the Union, insofar as those priorities are related to the objectives referred to in Article 2.
Article 21
Programme contact points
Every Member State may establish Programme contact points with responsibility for providing impartial guidance, practical 
information and assistance to applicants, stakeholders and beneficiaries of the Programme with respect to all the aspects 
thereof, including in relation to the application procedure, dissemination of user-friendly information and Programme 
results, inquiries for partners, training and formalities.
Programme contact points shall carry out their functions independently.
Article 22
Committee procedure
1.
The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. This committee shall be a committee within the meaning of 
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011.
2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
3.
The committee may meet in specific configurations to deal with the individual strands of the Programme.
Article 23
Repeal
Regulations (EU) No 1381/2013 and (EU) No 390/2014 are repealed with effect from 1 January 2021.
Article 24
Transitional provisions
1.
This Regulation shall not affect the continuation of or modification of actions initiated pursuant to Regulations (EU) 
No 1381/2013 and (EU) No 390/2014, which shall continue to apply to those actions until their closure.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                          
L 156/17  
2.
The financial envelope for the Programme may also cover the technical and administrative assistance expenses 
necessary to ensure the transition between the Programme and the measures adopted pursuant to Regulations (EU) 
No 1381/2013 and (EU) No 390/2014.
3.
If necessary, appropriations may be entered in the Union budget beyond 2027 to cover the expenses provided for in 
Article 7(9) to enable the management of actions not completed by 31 December 2027.
Article 25
Entry into force
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 1 January 2021.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 28 April 2021.
For the European Parliament
The President
D. M. SASSOLI
For the Council
The President
A. P. ZACARIAS
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/18                                                                                                                                           
5.5.2021  
ANNEX I 
ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED BY THE PROGRAMME 
The general and specific objectives of the Programme set out in Article 2 shall be pursued in particular by supporting the 
following activities:
(1)
awareness raising, promotion and the dissemination of information within the areas and objectives covered by the 
Programme in order to improve knowledge of rights and values and related policies;
(2)
mutual learning and the exchange of good practices among stakeholders to improve knowledge and mutual 
understanding;
(3)
analytical and monitoring activities to improve the understanding of the situation in Member States and at Union level 
in the areas covered by the Programme as well as to improve the implementation of Union law, policies and values 
within Member States, such as activities including the collection of data and statistics; the development of common 
methodologies and, where appropriate, of indicators or of benchmarks; studies, research, analyses and surveys; 
evaluations; impact assessment; and the development and publication of guides, reports and educational material;
(4)
training relevant stakeholders to improve knowledge of the policies and rights in the areas covered by the Programme;
(5)
developing and maintaining information and communication technology tools;
(6)
supporting civil society organisations and non-profit stakeholders active in the areas covered by the Programme:
(a) to increase their capacity to react, and to ensure adequate access for all citizens to their services, counselling 
activities and support activities;
(b) to carry out advocacy activities to promote rights, thereby also strengthening the protection and promotion of 
Union values and respect for the rule of law, and contributing to democratic dialogue, transparency and good 
governance, including in cases of shrinking space for civil society;
(7)
increasing awareness among citizens, especially young people, of European culture, cultural heritage, identity and 
history, including with regard to totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and other defining episodes in recent 
European history, so as to strengthen remembrance and European citizens’ commitment to the Union and to 
encourage tolerance, mutual understanding, intercultural dialogue and respect for diversity;
(8)
bringing together citizens of different nationalities and cultures by giving them the opportunity to participate in 
town-twinning activities and civil society projects, thus creating the conditions for an improved bottom-up approach 
and fostering civic and democratic engagement;
(9)
encouraging and facilitating active and inclusive participation in the construction of a more democratic Union, as well 
as raising awareness of rights and values through the provision of support to civil society organisations;
(10) developing the capacity of European networks to promote and further develop Union law, values, policy goals and 
strategies;
(11) financing technical and organisational support for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/788, thereby 
underpinning the exercise by citizens of the right to launch and support European citizens’ initiatives;
(12) enhancing knowledge of the Programme and dissemination and transferability of its results; and fostering outreach; 
including by setting up and supporting Programme contact points.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
5.5.2021                                                                                                                                          
L 156/19  
ANNEX II 
INDICATORS 
The Programme shall be monitored on the basis of a set of indicators intended to measure the extent to which its general 
and specific objectives have been achieved while minimising administrative burdens and costs. To that end, data will be 
collected as regards the following set of indicators:
(1) number of people reached by:
(a) training activities;
(b) mutual learning activities and the exchange of good practices;
(c) awareness raising, information and dissemination activities;
(2) number of civil society organisations reached by support and capacity-building activities;
(3) number of transnational networks and initiatives focusing on European memory and heritage as a result of the 
Programme intervention.
All individual data shall be broken down by sex whenever possible. The interim and final evaluations of the Programme 
shall focus on each strand and on each activity, and shall include a gender equality perspective and evaluate impacts on 
gender equality.
EN
Official Journal of the European Union 
L 156/20                                                                                                                                           
5.5.2021  
