II 
(Non-legislative acts) 
REGULATIONS 
COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2018/791 
of 31 May 2018 
amending Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 recognising protected zones exposed to particular plant 
health risks in the Community 
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 
Having regard to Council Directive 2000/29/EC of 8 May 2000 on protective measures against the introduction into the 
Community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the Community (1), and in 
particular Article 2(1)(h) thereof, 
Having regard to the requests submitted by Finland, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Sweden and the United Kingdom, 
Whereas: 
(1)  
By Commission Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 (2) certain Member States and certain areas in Member States were 
recognised as protected zones in respect of certain harmful organisms. In some cases recognition was granted for 
a limited period of time to allow the Member State concerned to provide the full information necessary to show 
that the harmful organisms in question did not occur in the Member State or area concerned, or to complete the 
efforts to eradicate the organism in question. Since then, there have been significant developments in the plant 
health status of certain protected zones in some Member States. 
(2)  
The territory of Finland was recognised as a permanent protected zone with respect to Bemisia tabaci Genn. 
(European populations). Finland requested the revocation of the status of its protected zone due to an insufficient 
degree of continued economic and plant health benefit. Finland should therefore no longer be recognised as 
a protected zone in respect of Bemisia tabaci Genn (European populations). 
(3)  
The territory of Azores in Portugal was recognised until 30 April 2018 as a protected zone in respect of 
Globodera pallida (Stone) Behrens, Globodera rostochiensis (Wollenweber) Behrens and Rhynchophorus ferrugineus 
(Olivier). From further information provided by Portugal, it appears that the territory of Azores continues to be 
free from those organisms. Therefore, Azores should be recognised as a protected zone in respect of those 
harmful organisms without any time limitation. 
(4)  
Ireland and the United Kingdom have requested that the territories of Ireland and Northern Ireland, respectively, 
be recognised as a protected zone in respect of Liriomyza huidobrensis (Blanchard) and Liriomyza trifolii (Burgess). 
On the basis of surveys conducted since 2011 in Ireland and since 2012 in Northern Ireland in the United 
Kingdom, Ireland and the United Kingdom have submitted evidence that the harmful organisms concerned do 
not occur in the respective territories, despite favourable conditions for those organisms to establish there. It is, 
however, necessary that further surveys be carried out. Those surveys should further be monitored by experts 
under the authority of the Commission. Therefore, Ireland and Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom should 
be recognised as a protected zone in respect of Liriomyza huidobrensis and Liriomyza trifolii until 30 April 2020. 
1.6.2018 
L 136/1 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(1) OJ L 169, 10.7.2000, p. 1. 
(2) Commission Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 of 4 July 2008 recognising protected zones exposed to particular plant health risks in the 
Community (OJ L 193, 22.7.2008, p. 1). 
(5)  
The territories of Ireland, Malta and the United Kingdom were recognised until 30 April 2018 as a protected 
zone in respect of Paysandisia archon (Burmeister). From further information provided by Ireland, Malta and the 
United Kingdom, it appears that their territories continue to be free from that organism. Therefore, Ireland, Malta 
and the United Kingdom should be recognised as a protected zone in respect of Paysandisia archon without any 
time limitation. 
(6)  
The territories of Ireland and the United Kingdom were recognised until 30 April 2018 as a protected zone in 
respect of Rhynchophorus ferrugineus (Olivier). From further information provided by Ireland and the United 
Kingdom, it appears that their territories continue to be free from that organism. Therefore, Ireland and the 
United Kingdom should be recognised as a protected zone in respect of Rhynchophorus ferrugineus without any 
time limitation. 
(7)  
The territory of the United Kingdom was recognised until 30 April 2018 as a protected zone in respect of 
Thaumetopoea pityocampa Denis & Schiffermüller and ‘Candidatus Phytoplasma ulmi’. From further information 
provided by the United Kingdom, it appears that their territory continues to be free from those 
organisms. Therefore, the United Kingdom should be recognised as a protected zone in respect of Thaumetopoea 
pityocampa Denis & Schiffermüller and ‘Candidatus Phytoplasma ulmi’ without any time limitation. 
(8)  
The territory of the United Kingdom, with the exception of certain local authority areas, was recognised as 
a protected zone with respect to Thaumetopoea processionea L. until 30 April 2018. The United Kingdom has 
submitted information showing that Thaumetopoea processionea L. is now established in the local authority areas of 
Barking and Dagenham; Basildon; Basingstoke and Dene; Bexley; Bracknell Forest; Brentwood; Broxbourne; Castle 
Point; Chelmsford; Chiltem; Crawley; Dacorum; Dartford; East Hertfordshire; Enfield; Epping Forest; Gravesham; 
Greenwich; Harlow; Hart; Havering; Hertsmere; Horsham; Littlesford; Medway; Mid Sussex; Mole Valley; 
Newham; North Hertfordshire; Redbridge; Reigate and Banstead; Rushmoor; Sevenoaks; South Bedfordshire; 
South Bucks; St Albans; Surrey Heath; Tandridge; Three Rivers; Thurrock; Tonbridge and Malling; Waltham 
Forest; Watford; Waverley; Welwyn Hatfield; Windsor and Maidenhead, Wokingham and Wycombe. Those areas 
should therefore no longer be recognised as part of the protected zone of the United Kingdom and be added to 
the list of local authority areas excluded from the protected zone. That information also shows that the rest of 
the territory of the United Kingdom, which was recognised as a protected zone with respect to Thaumetopoea 
processionea L. appears to continue to be free from that harmful organism. It is, however, necessary that further 
surveys be carried out. Those surveys should be further monitored by experts under the authority of the 
Commission. Therefore, the United Kingdom, with the exception of certain local authority areas, should continue 
to be recognised as a protected zone in respect of Thaumetopoea processionea L. until 30 April 2020. 
(9)  
The territory of Sicily in Italy was recognised as a permanent protected zone with respect to Erwinia amylovora 
(Burr.) Winsl. et al. Italy has submitted information showing that Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. is now 
established in the municipalities of Cesarò (Messina Province), Maniace, Bronte, Adrano (Catania Province) and 
Centuripe, Regalbuto and Troina (Enna Province) in Sicily. The municipalities of Cesarò (Messina Province), 
Maniace, Bronte, Adrano (Catania Province) and Centuripe, Regalbuto and Troina (Enna Province) should 
therefore no longer be recognised as part of the protected zone of Italy in Sicily in respect of Erwinia amylovora 
(Burr.) Winsl. et al. 
(10)  
Furthermore, certain parts of the territory of Italy were recognised as a protected zone with respect to Erwinia 
amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. until 30 April 2018. Italy has submitted information showing that Erwinia amylovora 
(Burr.) Winsl. et al. is now established in the provinces of Parma and Piacenza, which are the only remaining 
parts of Emilia-Romagna that are recognised as a protected zone in respect of Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. 
et al. Emilia-Romagna should therefore no longer be recognised as part of the protected zone of Italy. That 
information also shows that the rest of the territory of Italy which was recognised as a protected zone with 
respect to Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. until 30 April 2018 appears to continue to be free from that 
harmful organism. It is, however, necessary that further surveys be carried out. Those surveys should further be 
monitored by experts under the authority of the Commission. Therefore, the territory of Italy which was 
recognised as a protected zone with respect to Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. until 30 April 2018, with the 
exception of certain provinces, including those of Parma and Piacenza in Emilia-Romagna, should be recognised 
as a protected zone in respect of Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. until 30 April 2020. 
(11)  
The territory of Northern Ireland, with the exception of certain townlands, was recognised as part of the 
protected zone of the United Kingdom with respect to Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. The United Kingdom 
has submitted information showing that Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. is now established also in other 
parts of Northern Ireland and requested the revocation of the status of protected zone for the entire territory of 
Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland should therefore no longer be recognised as being part of the protected zone 
of the United Kingdom in respect of Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. 
1.6.2018 
L 136/2 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
(12)  
The territories of Ireland, Lithuania, Slovenia and Slovakia, except certain areas, were recognised as protected 
zones with respect to Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. until 30 April 2018. From further information 
provided by Ireland, Lithuania, Slovenia and Slovakia it appears that the sporadic and isolated outbreaks of that 
harmful organism in some parts of the protected zone have been either eradicated or are under eradication and 
that the rest of their territories, except certain areas, continues to be free from that harmful organism. That 
information also shows that so far none of the outbreak eradications has taken more than two years. It is, 
however, necessary that further surveys be carried out. Those surveys should further be monitored by experts 
under the authority of the Commission. Therefore, the territories of Ireland, Lithuania, Slovenia and Slovakia, 
except certain areas, should be recognised as protected zones in respect of Erwinia amylovora (Burr.) Winsl. et al. 
until 30 April 2020. 
(13)  
The territory of the United Kingdom has been recognised until 30 April 2018 as a protected zone in respect of 
Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni (Smith) Vauterin et al. From further information provided by the United 
Kingdom, it appears that the sporadic and isolated outbreaks of that harmful organism in some parts of the 
protected zone have been either eradicated or are under eradication and that the rest of its territory continues to 
be free from that harmful organism. That information also shows that so far none of the outbreak eradications 
has taken more than two years. It is, however, necessary that the eradication efforts continue and further surveys 
be carried out. Those surveys should further be monitored by experts under the authority of the Commission. 
Therefore, the recognition of the United Kingdom as a protected zone in respect of Xanthomonas arboricola pv. 
pruni (Smith) Vauterin et al. should be extended until 30 April 2020. 
(14)  
Ireland has been recognised until 30 April 2018 as a protected zone in respect of Ceratocystis platani (J.M. Walter) 
Engelbr. & T.C. Harr. From further information provided by Ireland, it appears that its territory continues to be 
free from that harmful organism. Therefore, Ireland should be recognised as a protected zone in respect of that 
harmful organism without any time limitation. 
(15)  
The territory of Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom was recognised as a protected zone with respect to 
Gremmeniella abietina (Lag.) Morelet. The United Kingdom has submitted information showing that Gremmeniella 
abietina (Lag.) Morelet is now established in Northern Ireland. Northern Ireland should therefore no longer be 
recognised as a protected zone in respect of Gremmeniella abietina (Lag.) Morelet. 
(16)  
The territory of Greece, with the exception of certain Regional Units, was recognised as a protected zone with 
respect to Citrus tristeza virus (European strains). Greece has submitted information showing that Citrus tristeza 
virus (European strains) is now established also in the Regional Units of Arta and Lakonia. The Regional Units of 
Arta and Lakonia should therefore no longer be recognised as part of the protected zone of Greece in respect of 
Citrus tristeza virus (European strains). 
(17)  
Sweden was recognised as a protected zone with respect to Tomato spotted wilt virus. Sweden requested the 
revocation of the status of its protected zone due to an insufficient degree of continued economic benefit. 
Sweden should therefore no longer be recognised as a protected zone in respect of Tomato spotted wilt virus. 
(18)  
For the purpose of clarity, the entire Annex to Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 should be replaced. 
(19)  
Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 should therefore be amended accordingly. 
(20)  
Since certain areas have been recognised as protected zones pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 until 
30 April 2018, this Regulation should apply from 1 May 2018 in order to ensure legal continuity and to avoid 
disruption of trade. 
(21)  
The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on 
Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 is replaced by the Annex to this Regulation. 
1.6.2018 
L 136/3 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Article 2 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European 
Union. 
It shall apply from 1 May 2018. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 31 May 2018. 
For the Commission 
The President 
Jean-Claude JUNCKER  
1.6.2018 
L 136/4 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
ANNEX 
Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 690/2008 is replaced by the following: 
‘ANNEX I 
Zones in the community recognised as “protected zones”, in respect of harmful organism(s) listed 
against their names 
Harmful organisms 
Protected zones: territory of 
(a)  Insects, mites and nematodes, at all stages of their 
development  
1.  
Anthonomus grandis (Boh.) 
Greece, Spain (Andalusia, Catalonia, Extremadura, Murcia, 
Valencia) 
2.  
Bemisia tabaci Genn. (European populations) 
Ireland, Portugal (Azores, Beira Interior, Beira Litoral, Entre 
Douro e Minho and Trás-os-Montes), Sweden, United 
Kingdom 
3.  
Cephalcia lariciphila (Klug.) 
Ireland, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland, Isle of Man 
and Jersey) 
3.1.  Daktulosphaira vitifoliae (Fitch) 
Cyprus 
4.  
Dendroctonus micans Kugelan 
Ireland, Greece, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland, Isle of 
Man and Jersey) 
4.1.  Dryocosmus kuriphilus Yasumatsu 
Ireland, United Kingdom 
5.  
Gilpinia hercyniae (Hartig) 
Ireland, Greece, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland, Isle of 
Man and Jersey) 
6.  
Globodera pallida (Stone) Behrens 
Latvia, Portugal (Azores), Slovenia, Slovakia, Finland 
6.1. Globodera rostochiensis (Wollenweber) Beh­
rens 
Portugal (Azores) 
7.  
Gonipterus scutellatus Gyll. 
Greece, Portugal (Azores) 
8.  
Ips amitinus Eichhof 
Ireland, Greece, United Kingdom 
9.  
Ips cembrae Heer 
Ireland, Greece, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland and Isle 
of Man) 
10.  Ips duplicatus Sahlberg 
Ireland, Greece, United Kingdom 
11.  Ips sexdentatus Bőrner 
Ireland, Cyprus, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland and 
Isle of Man) 
12.  Ips typographus Heer 
Ireland, United Kingdom 
1.6.2018 
L 136/5 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Harmful organisms 
Protected zones: territory of 
13.  Leptinotarsa decemlineata Say 
Ireland, Spain (Ibiza and Menorca), Cyprus, Malta, Portugal 
(Azores and Madeira), Finland (districts of Åland, Häme, 
Kymi, Pirkanmaa, Satakunta, Turku, Uusimaa), Sweden 
(counties of Blekinge, Gotland, Halland, Kalmar and 
Skåne), United Kingdom 
14.  Liriomyza bryoniae (Kaltenbach) 
Ireland, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
14.01.  Liriomyza huidobrensis (Blanchard) 
Ireland (until 30 April 2020), United Kingdom (Northern 
Ireland) (until 30 April 2020) 
14.02.  Liriomyza trifolii (Burgess) 
Ireland (until 30 April 2020), United Kingdom (Northern 
Ireland) (until 30 April 2020) 
14.1.  Paysandisia archon (Burmeister) 
Ireland, Malta, United Kingdom 
14.2.  Rhynchophorus ferrugineus (Olivier) 
Ireland, Portugal (Azores), United Kingdom 
15.  Sternochetus mangiferae Fabricius 
Spain (Granada and Malaga), Portugal (Alentejo, Algarve 
and Madeira) 
15.1.
Thaumetopoea pityocampa Denis & Schif­
fermüller 
United Kingdom 
16.  Thaumetopoea processionea L. 
Ireland, United Kingdom (excluding the local authority 
areas of Barking and Dagenham; Barnet; Basildon; 
Basingstoke and Dene; Bexley; Bracknell Forest; Brent; 
Brentwood; Bromley; Broxbourne; Camden; Castle Point; 
Chelmsford; Chiltem; City of London; City of Westminster; 
Crawley; Croydon; Dacorum; Dartford; Ealing; East 
Hertfordshire; Elmbridge District; Enfield; Epping Forest; 
Epsom 
and 
Ewell 
District; 
Gravesham; 
Greenwich; 
Guildford; Hackney; Hammersmith & Fulham; Haringey; 
Harlow; Harrow; Hart; Havering; Hertsmere; Hillingdon; 
Horsham; Hounslow; Islington; Kensington & Chelsea; 
Kingston upon Thames; Lambeth; Lewisham; Littlesford; 
Medway; Merton; Mid Sussex; Mole Valley; Newham; North 
Hertfordshire; Reading; Redbridge; Reigate and Banstead; 
Richmond Upon Thames; Runnymede District; Rushmoor; 
Sevenoaks; Slough; South Bedfordshire; South Bucks; South 
Oxfordshire; Southwark; Spelthorne District; St Albans; 
Sutton; Surrey Heath; Tandridge; Three Rivers; Thurrock; 
Tonbridge and Malling; Tower Hamlets; Waltham Forest; 
Wandsworth; Watford; Waverley; Welwyn Hatfield; West 
Berkshire; Windsor and Maidenhead; Woking, Wokingham 
and Wycombe) (until 30 April 2020) 
(b)  Bacteria  
01.  “Candidatus Phytoplasma ulmi” 
United Kingdom 
1.  
Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens pv. flaccumfaciens 
(Hedges) Col. 
Greece, Spain 
1.6.2018 
L 136/6 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Harmful organisms 
Protected zones: territory of 
2.  
Erwinia amylovora (Burrill) Winslow et al. 
—  Estonia, Spain (except the autonomous communities of 
Andalucía, Aragón, Castilla la Mancha, Castilla y León, 
Extremadura, the autonomous community of Madrid, 
Murcia, Navarra and La Rioja, the province of 
Guipuzcoa 
(Basque 
Country), 
the 
comarcas 
of 
Garrigues, Noguera, Pla d'Urgell, Segrià and Urgell in 
the province of Lleida (Comunidad autonoma de 
Catalunya); and the municipalities of Alborache and 
Turís in the province of Valencia and the Comarcas de 
L'Alt Vinalopó and El Vinalopó Mitjà in the province of 
Alicante (Comunidad Valenciana)), France (Corsica), 
Italy (Abruzzo, Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Lazio, 
Liguria, Marche, Molise, Piedmont (except the commu­
nes of Busca, Centallo and Tarantasca in the province 
of Cuneo), Sardinia, Sicily (excluding the municipalities 
of Cesarò (Messina Province), Maniace, Bronte, Adrano 
(Catania Province) and Centuripe, Regalbuto and Troina 
(Enna Province)), Tuscany, Umbria, Valle d'Aosta), 
Latvia, Portugal, Finland, United Kingdom (Isle of Man; 
Channel Islands), 
—  and, until 30 April 2020, Ireland (except Galway city), 
Italy (Apúlia, Lombardy (except the provinces of 
Milano, Mantua, Sondrio and Varese), Veneto (except 
the provinces of Rovigo and Venice, the communes 
Barbona, Boara Pisani, Castelbaldo, Masi, Piacenza 
d'Adige, S. Urbano and Vescovana in the province of 
Padova and the area situated to the South of high­
way A4 in the province of Verona)), Lithuania (except 
the municipalities of Babtai and Kėdainiai (region of 
Kaunas)), Slovenia (except the regions Gorenjska, 
Koroška, Maribor and Notranjska, and the communes 
of Lendava and Renče-Vogrsko (south from the high­
way H4)), Slovakia (except the county of Dunajská 
Streda, 
Hronovce 
and 
Hronské 
Kľačany (Levice 
County), Dvory nad Žitavou (Nové Zámky County), 
Málinec (Poltár County), Hrhov (Rožňava County), 
Veľké Ripňany (Topoľčany County), Kazimír, Luhyňa, 
Malý Horeš, Svätuše and Zatín (Trebišov County)) 
3.  
Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni (Smith) Vauterin 
et al. 
United Kingdom (until 30 April 2020) 
(c)  Fungi  
01.  Ceratocystis platani (J.M.Walter) Engelbr. & T.C. 
Harr. 
Ireland, United Kingdom 
02.  Cryphonectria parasitica (Murrill) Barr. 
Czech Republic, Ireland, Sweden, United Kingdom 
1.  
Glomerella gossypii Edgerton 
Greece 
2.  
Gremmeniella abietina (Lag.) Morelet 
Ireland 
3.  
Hypoxylon mammatum (Wahlenberg) J. Miller 
Ireland, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
1.6.2018 
L 136/7 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
Harmful organisms 
Protected zones: territory of 
(d)  Viruses and virus-like organisms  
1.  
Beet necrotic yellow vein virus 
Ireland, France (Brittany), Portugal (Azores), Finland, United 
Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
3.  
Citrus tristeza virus (European strains) 
Greece (except the Regional Units of Argolida, Arta, Chania 
and Lakonia), Malta, Portugal (except Algarve, Madeira and 
the county of Odemira in Alentejo) 
4.  
Grapevine flavescence dorée MLO 
Czech Republic, France (Alsace, Champagne-Ardenne, 
Picardie (département de l'Aisne), Ile de France (communes 
de Citry, Nanteuil-sur-Marne and Saâcy-sur- Marne) and 
Lorraine)), Italy (Apúlia, Sardinia and Basilicata)’    
1.6.2018 
L 136/8 
Official Journal of the European Union 
EN     
