ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
1/8
COUNCIL IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2024/384 
of 22 January 2024
implementing Regulation (EU) 2023/2147 concerning restrictive measures in view of activities 
undermining the stability and political transition of Sudan 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EU) 2023/2147 of 9 October 2023 concerning restrictive measures in view of 
activities undermining the stability and political transition of Sudan (1), and in particular Article 13(1) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy,
Whereas:
(1)
On 9 October 2023, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) 2023/2147.
(2)
On 27 November 2023, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy issued a 
statement on behalf of the Union on the situation in Sudan, in which the Union and its Member States reiterated 
their strong condemnation of the continuous fighting between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support 
Forces, and their respective affiliated militias. The Union also deplored the dramatic escalation of violence and the 
irreparable cost to human life in Darfur and throughout the country, as well as violations of international human 
rights law and international humanitarian law.
(3)
In view of the gravity of the situation, six entities should be included in the list of natural and legal persons, entities 
and bodies in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2023/2147.
(4)
Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2023/2147 should therefore be amended accordingly,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2023/2147 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation.
Article 2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
(1) OJ L, 2023/2147, 11.10.2023, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2023/2147/oj.
Official Journal  
of the European Union 
EN 
L series    
2024/384  
22.1.2024
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
2/8
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 22 January 2024.
For the Council
The President
J. BORRELL FONTELLES
OJ L, 22.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
3/8
ANNEX 
Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2023/2147 is replaced by the following:
‘ANNEX I
List of natural and legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in Article 2
A. Natural Persons
[…]
B. Entities
Name
Identifying information
Reasons
Date of listing
1.
Defense Industries System
a.k.a.:
Military Industry 
Corporation;
Defense Industries 
Corporation
Address: Khartoum North, Khartoum 
10783
Type of entity: Public entity
Date of registration: 1993
Defense Industries System (DIS), previously known as the Military Industrial 
Corporation (MIC), is a large Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF)-owned conglomerate 
which manages a network of military-controlled companies. DIS generates substantial 
annual revenues, estimated at USD 2 billion in 2020.
DIS manufactures and provides the SAF with a range of military equipment, including 
weapons, ammunition, aircraft and military vehicles, which are used by the armed 
forces in the conflict in Sudan.
DIS controls together with SMT Engineering (SMT), through a network of direct and 
indirect shareholdings, numerous companies of the SAF-controlled GIAD 
conglomerate, which is also involved in the production of weapons and vehicles for 
the armed forces, as well as in the provision of services to the SAF, in particular 
through a partnership between GIAD for Automotive Services and the Corps of 
Engineers.
The Director General of DIS has accompanied Commander Al-Burhan during his 
official visits abroad since April 2023.
Therefore, DIS provides support to SAF actions and policies that threaten the peace, 
stability and security of Sudan. In addition, DIS is associated with SMT which also 
provides support to the SAF’s actions and policies that threaten the peace, stability and 
security of Sudan.
22.1.2024
OJ L, 22.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
4/8
Name
Identifying information
Reasons
Date of listing
2.
SMT Engineering
a.k.a.:
Sudan Master Technology;
SMT
Address: SMT Building Madani Road, 
KM 50 Khartoum, Giad Industrial 
Complex, Gamhuria Street Khartoum
Type of entity: State Controlled 
Company
SMT Engineering (SMT) is a Sudan-based company which owns or controls, together 
with DIS, numerous companies of the SAF-controlled GIAD conglomerate, through a 
network of direct and indirect shareholdings. SMT is the main shareholder of three 
GIAD companies in which DIS owns the rest of the shares (GIAD for the automotive 
and truck industry, GIAD complex for heavy mechanism industries and GIAD metal 
industries complex). SMT also owns or controls, directly or indirectly, many other 
companies that are part of the GIAD conglomerate and in which DIS also holds stakes, 
such as GIAD for Automotive Services.
The GIAD conglomerate is involved in the production of weapons and vehicles for the 
armed forces, as well as in the provision of services to the SAF, in particular through a 
partnership between GIAD for Automotive Services and the Corps of Engineers.
DIS is a large SAF-owned conglomerate which provides support for SAF actions and 
policies that threaten the peace, stability and security of Sudan, in particular through 
the manufacture and provision of a range of military equipment, including weapons, 
ammunition, aircraft and military vehicles, which are used by the armed forces in the 
conflict in Sudan.
Therefore, SMT Engineering provides support for SAF actions and policies that 
threaten the peace, stability and security of Sudan. It is also associated with DIS, which 
also provides support for SAF actions and policies that threaten the peace, stability and 
security of Sudan.
22.1.2024
OJ L, 22.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
5/8
Name
Identifying information
Reasons
Date of listing
3.
Zadna International 
Company for Investment 
Limited
Address: Doha Street Property 436, 
Manshia Doha Street, Khartoum, 
Sudan, 11429
Type of entity: State Controlled 
Company
Date of registration: 1997
Zadna International Company for Investment Limited (Zadna) is a holding company in 
agriculture and construction, which is 99 % owned by the SAF controlled Special Fund 
for the Social Security of the Armed Forces (SFSSAF), formerly known as the Charity 
Organisation for the Support of the Armed Forces.
The leader of the SAF, Commander Al-Burhan, appointed in October 2021 General El 
Mirghani Idris Suleiman as Chairman of Zadna, who is one of his friends and Director 
of DIS.
In May 2023, he also appointed Dr. Taha Hussein Yousef as Director-General of Zadna.
The SFSSAF and Zadna are part of the vast network of companies and organisations 
owned or controlled by the SAF, which are used to sustain the power of the armed 
forces over the Sudanese economy.
Zadna is a leading company engaged in high-profile international business deals and is 
one of the top revenue earners in the army’s network of companies. Therefore, it 
generates substantial revenues for the benefit of the SAF, which enables the armed 
forces to finance and continue the conflict in Sudan.
Therefore, Zadna International Company for Investment Limited provides support for 
SAF actions and policies that threaten the peace, stability and security of Sudan.
22.1.2024
OJ L, 22.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
6/8
Name
Identifying information
Reasons
Date of listing
4.
Al Junaid Multi Activities Co 
Ltd
a.k.a.
Ajmac multi activities 
company;
Al Gunade
Address: Street 3 Khartoum Block 17 
Alryad, Sudan
Industrial Area 13, Sharjah, UAE P.O. 
Box 61401, Sharjah
Type of entity: Limited Company
Date of registration: 2009
Al Junaid Multi Activities Co Ltd (Al Junaid) is a Sudanese holding company controlled 
by Rapid Support Forces’ (RSF) Commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo (Hemedti) and 
his brother, RSF Deputy Commander Abdul Rahim Dagalo. The company is owned by 
Abdul Rahim Dagalo and his two sons. Hemedti himself is on its board of directors.
Based in Khartoum, Al Junaid operates subsidiaries across multiple economic sectors, 
including gold mining and trade, and covers a large part of Sudan’s gold industry. The 
company has mining concessions in Darfur, in particular in the vicinity of Jebel Amer 
(North Darfur) and in the Singo area (South Darfur), and it also operates beyond that 
region.
The gold mines of Darfur are under the control of the RSF, including the Jebel Amer 
site since 2017.
Gold mining and trade through Al Junaid generates a substantial source of revenue for 
the Dagalo family and the RSF, which enables them to finance and continue the 
conflict in Sudan.
The RSF is also using Al Junaid’s gold production and exports to secure military 
support from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), to which most of Sudan’s gold 
production is smuggled, and from the Wagner Group, including the provision of 
weapons used by the RSF in the conflict in Sudan.
Therefore, Al Junaid Multi Activities Co Ltd provides support for RSF actions that 
threaten the peace, stability and security of Sudan.
22.1.2024
OJ L, 22.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
7/8
Name
Identifying information
Reasons
Date of listing
5.
Tradive General Trading Co
Address: P.O. Box 86436, Dubai (UAE)
Type of entity: Limited Company
Date of registration: 2018
Tradive General Trading Co (Tradive) is a company based in the UAE whose director 
and ultimate beneficial owner is RSF Major Algoney Hamdan Dagalo, the youngest 
brother of Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo (Hemedti).
Tradive is part of the RSF’s commercial network which generates stable revenue for the 
RSF enabling them to finance and continue the conflict in Sudan. It is used as an RSF 
front company, channelling substantial sums into and out of the RSF, and enabling the 
purchase of material to support RSF operations.
For instance, Tradive has purchased vehicles for the RSF, including Toyota Hilux and 
Land Cruiser pick-up trucks, which are often converted into highly mobile 
“technicals”, which are armed desert vehicles. In the first half of 2019, more than one 
thousand such vehicles were imported into Sudan from the UAE. These converted 
vehicles have been used by the RSF for a long time and continue to be used by it in the 
conflict in Sudan, in particular to patrol the areas under RSF control.
Therefore, Tradive General Trading Co provides support for RSF actions that threaten 
the peace, stability and security of Sudan.
22.1.2024
OJ L, 22.1.2024 
EN  
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/384/oj 
8/8
Name
Identifying information
Reasons
Date of listing
6.
GSK ADVANCE COMPANY 
LTD
Address: Ahmed Khair Street, 
Khartoum 11111, Sudan
Type of entity: Limited Company
GSK is a Sudan-based information technology and security company, which is 60 % 
owned by RSF Major Algoney Hamdan Dagalo, the youngest brother of Mohamed 
Hamdan Dagalo (Hemedti).
GSK is part of the RSF’s commercial network which generates stable revenue for the 
RSF enabling them to finance and continue the conflict in Sudan. It is used by the RSF 
as a front company, facilitating cash flows into the RSF and being involved in the RSF’s 
procurement processes.
In addition, since at least 2019, GSK has been working with Aviatrade LLC, a Russia- 
based military supply company, on the purchase and supply of material and 
equipment for the benefit of the RSF, including the corresponding training, and on the 
purchase and supply of unmanned aerial vehicles, monitoring equipment and spare 
parts. Reconnaissance and weaponised drones are used by the RSF in the conflict in 
Sudan.
Therefore, GSK Advance Company LTD provides support for RSF actions that threaten 
the peace, stability and security of Sudan.
22.1.2024’
OJ L, 22.1.2024 
EN  
