PART 24-UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq. ; 49 CFR 1.85. Source: 89 FR 36944, May 3, 2024, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 24.1 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to promulgate rules to implement the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq. ) (Uniform Act), in accordance with the following objectives: (a) To ensure that owners of real property to be acquired for Federal and federally assisted projects are treated fairly and consistently, to encourage and expedite acquisition by agreements with such owners, to minimize litigation and relieve congestion in the courts, and to promote public confidence in Federal and federally assisted land acquisition programs; (b) To ensure that persons displaced as a direct result of Federal or federally assisted projects are treated fairly, consistently, and equitably so that such displaced persons will not suffer disproportionate injuries as a result of projects designed for the benefit of the public as a whole; and (c) To ensure that agencies implement the regulations in this part in a manner that is efficient and cost effective. &#xA7; 24.2 Definitions and acronyms. (a) Definitions. Unless otherwise noted, the following terms used in this part shall be understood as defined in this section: Agency means any entity utilizing Federal funds or Federal financial assistance for a project or program that acquires real property or displaces a person. (i) Federal agency means any department, agency, or instrumentality in the executive branch of the United States Government, any wholly owned U.S. Government corporation, the Architect of the Capitol, the Federal Reserve Banks and branches thereof, and any person who has the authority to acquire property by eminent domain under Federal law. (ii) State agency means any department, agency, or instrumentality of a State or of a political subdivision of a State, any department, agency, or instrumentality of two or more States or of two or more political subdivisions of a State or States, and any person who has the authority to acquire property by eminent domain under State law. Alien not lawfully present in the United States means an alien who is not &#x201C;lawfully present&#x201D; in the United States as defined in 8 CFR 103.12 and includes: (i) An alien present in the United States who has not been admitted or paroled into the United States pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq. ) and whose stay in the United States has not been authorized by the U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security; and (ii) An alien who is present in the United States after the expiration of the period of stay authorized by the U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security or who otherwise violates the terms and conditions of admission, parole, or authorization to stay in the United States. Appraisal means a written statement independently and impartially prepared by a qualified appraiser setting forth an opinion of defined value of an adequately described property as of a specific date, supported by the presentation and analysis of relevant market information. Business means any lawful activity, except a farm operation, that is conducted: (i) Primarily for the purchase, sale, lease, and/or rental of personal and/or real property, and/or for the manufacture, processing, and/or marketing of products, commodities, and/or any other personal property; (ii) Primarily for the sale of services to the public; (iii) Primarily for outdoor advertising display purposes, when the display must be moved as a result of the project; or (iv) By a nonprofit organization that has established its nonprofit status under applicable Federal or State law. Citizen for purposes of this part includes both citizens of the United States and noncitizen nationals. Comparable replacement dwelling means a dwelling which is: (i) Decent, safe, and sanitary as described in the definition of decent, safe, and sanitary in this paragraph (a); (ii) Functionally equivalent to the displacement dwelling. The term functionally equivalent means that it performs the same function and provides the same utility. While a comparable replacement dwelling need not possess every feature of the displacement dwelling, the principal features must be present. Generally, functional equivalency is an objective standard, reflecting the range of purposes for which the various physical features of a dwelling may be used. However, in determining whether a replacement dwelling is functionally equivalent to the displacement dwelling, the agency may consider reasonable trade-offs for specific features when the replacement unit is equal to or better than the displacement dwelling ( see appendix A of this part, Section 24.2(a) Comparable replacement dwelling ); (iii) Adequate in size to accommodate the occupants; (iv) In an area not subject to unreasonable adverse environmental conditions; (v) In a location generally not less desirable than the location of the displaced person's dwelling with respect to public utilities and commercial and public facilities, and reasonably accessible to the person's place of employment; (vi) On a site that is typical in size for residential development with normal site improvements, including customary landscaping. The site need not include special improvements such as outbuildings, swimming pools, or greenhouses. ( See also &#xA7; 24.403(a)(2)); (vii) Currently available to the displaced person on the private market except as provided in paragraph (ix) of this definition ( see appendix A to this part, Section 24.2(a), definition of comparable replacement dwelling ); and (viii) Within the financial means of the displaced person: (A) A replacement dwelling purchased by a homeowner in occupancy at the displacement dwelling for at least 90 days prior to initiation of negotiations (90-day homeowner) is considered to be within the homeowner's financial means if the homeowner will receive the full price differential as described in &#xA7; 24.401(c), all increased mortgage interest costs as described at &#xA7; 24.401(d) and all incidental expenses as described at &#xA7; 24.401(f), plus any additional amount required to be paid under &#xA7; 24.404. (B) A replacement dwelling rented by an eligible displaced person is considered to be within his or her financial means if, after receiving rental assistance under this part, the person's monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs for the replacement dwelling do not exceed the person's base monthly rental for the displacement dwelling as described at &#xA7; 24.402(b)(2). (C) For a displaced person who is not eligible to receive a replacement housing payment because of the person's failure to meet length-of-occupancy requirements, comparable replacement rental housing is considered to be within the person's financial means if an agency pays that portion of the monthly housing costs of a replacement dwelling which exceeds the person's base monthly rent for the displacement dwelling as described in &#xA7; 24.402(b)(2). Such rental assistance must be paid under &#xA7; 24.404. (ix) For a person receiving Government housing assistance before displacement, a dwelling that may reflect similar Government housing assistance. In such cases any requirements of the Government housing assistance program, including fair housing, civil rights, and those relating to the size of the replacement dwelling, shall apply. However, nothing in this part prohibits an agency from offering, or precludes a person from accepting, assistance under a Government housing program, even if the person did not receive similar assistance before displacement, subject to the eligibility requirements of the Government housing assistance program. An agency is obligated to inform the person of his or her options under this part and the implications of accepting a different form of assistance than the assistance that the person may currently be receiving. If a person accepts assistance under a Government housing assistance program, the rules of that program apply, and the rental assistance payment under &#xA7; 24.402 would be computed on the basis of the person's actual out-of-pocket cost for the replacement housing and associated utilities after the applicable Government housing assistance has been applied. In determining comparability of housing under this part: (A) A public housing unit may qualify as a comparable replacement dwelling only for a person displaced from a public housing unit. (B) A privately owned unit with a housing project-based rental program subsidy ( e.g., tied to the unit or building) may qualify as a comparable replacement dwelling only for a person displaced from a similarly subsidized unit or public housing unit. (C) An offer for tenant-based rental assistance, such as a HUD Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher, may be provided along with an offer of a comparable replacement dwelling to a person receiving a similar subsidy assistance or occupying a privately owned subsidized unit or public housing unit before displacement. The displacing agency must confirm that the owner will accept tenant based rental assistance before offering the unit as comparable replacement housing. (see appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a), definition of comparable replacement dwelling ) Contribute materially means that during the 2 taxable years prior to the taxable year in which displacement occurs, or during such other period as the agency determines to be more equitable, a business or farm operation: (i) Had average annual gross receipts of at least $5,000; or (ii) Had average annual net earnings of at least $1,000; or (iii) Contributed at least 33 1/3 percent of the owner's or operator's average annual gross income from all sources. (iv) If the application of the above criteria creates an inequity or hardship in any given case, the agency may approve the use of other criteria as determined appropriate. (See appendix A of this part, section 24.305(e)) Decent, safe, and sanitary (DSS) dwelling means a dwelling which meets the requirements of paragraphs (i) through (vii) of this definition or the most stringent of the local housing code, Federal agency regulations, or the agency's regulations or written policy. The DSS dwelling shall: (i) Be structurally sound, weather tight, and in good repair; (A) Many local housing and occupancy codes require the abatement of deteriorating paint, including lead-based paint and lead-based paint dust, in protecting the public health and safety. Where such standards exist, they must be honored; (B) [Reserved] (ii) Contain a safe electrical wiring system adequate for lighting and other devices; (iii) Contain a heating system capable of sustaining a healthful temperature (of approximately 70 degrees) for a displaced person, except in those areas where local climatic conditions do not require such a system; (iv) Be adequate in size with respect to the number of rooms and area of living space needed to accommodate the displaced person. The number of persons occupying each habitable room used for sleeping purposes shall not exceed that permitted by the most stringent of the local housing code, Federal agency regulations or requirements, or the agency's regulations or written policy. In addition, the Federal funding agency shall follow the requirements for separate bedrooms for children of the opposite gender included in local housing codes or in the absence of local codes, the policies of such agencies; (v) There shall be a separate, well lighted and ventilated bathroom that provides privacy to the user and contains a sink, bathtub, or shower stall, and a toilet, all in good working order and properly connected to appropriate sources of water and to a sewage drainage system. When required by local code standards for residential occupancy, there shall be a kitchen area that contains a fully usable sink, properly connected to potable hot and cold water and to a sewage drainage system, and adequate space and utility service connections for a stove and refrigerator ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a), definition of DSS ); (vi) Contains unobstructed egress to safe, open space at ground level; and (vii) For a displaced person with a disability, be free of any barriers which would preclude reasonable ingress, egress, or use of the dwelling by such displaced person. ( See appendix A of this part, Section 24.2(a), definition of DSS ) Displaced person means: (i) Generally. Except as provided in paragraph (ii) of this definition, any person who permanently moves from the real property or moves his or her personal property from the real property. (This includes a person who occupies the real property prior to its acquisition, but who does not meet the length of occupancy requirements of the Uniform Act as described at &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.401(a) and 24.402(a).) (A) As a direct result of a written notice of intent to acquire, rehabilitate, and/or demolish ( see &#xA7; 24.203(d)), the initiation of negotiations for, or the acquisition of, such real property in whole or in part for a project; (B) As a direct result of rehabilitation or demolition for a project; or (C) As a direct result of a written notice of intent to acquire, or the acquisition, rehabilitation or demolition of, in whole or in part, other real property on which the person conducts a business or farm operation, for a project. However, eligibility for such person under this paragraph (i)(C) applies only for purposes of obtaining relocation assistance advisory services under &#xA7; 24.205(c), and moving expenses under &#xA7; 24.301, &#xA7; 24.302, or &#xA7; 24.303. (ii) Persons required to move temporarily. A person who is required to move or moves his or her personal property from the real property as a direct result of the project but is not required to relocate permanently. Such determination shall be made by the agency in accordance with any requirement, policy, or guidance established by the Federal agency funding the project ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a)). All benefits for persons required to move on a temporary basis are described in &#xA7; 24.202(a). (iii) Voluntary acquisitions. A tenant who moves as a direct result of a voluntary acquisition as described in &#xA7; 24.101(b)(1) through (3) is eligible for relocation assistance when there is a binding written agreement between the agency and the owner that obligates the agency, without further election, to purchase the real property. Federal Funding agencies should develop policies identifying the types of agreements used in its programs or projects which it considers to be binding and which would therefore trigger eligibility for tenants as displaced persons. Agreements such as options to purchase and conditional purchase and sale agreements are not considered a binding agreement within the meaning of this paragraph (iii) until all conditions to the agency's obligation to purchase the real property have been satisfied. Provided that, the agency may determine that a tenant who moves before there is a binding agreement is eligible for relocation assistance once a binding agreement exists allowing establishment of eligibility ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a)). (iv) Persons not displaced. The following is a nonexclusive listing of persons who do not qualify as displaced persons under this part: (A) A person who moves before the initiation of negotiations ( see &#xA7; 24.403(d)), unless the agency determines that the person was displaced as a direct result of the program or project; (B) A person who initially enters into occupancy of the property after the date of its acquisition for the project; (C) A person who has occupied the property for the purpose of obtaining assistance under the Uniform Act; (D) An owner-occupant who moves as a result of an acquisition of real property as described in &#xA7; 24.101(a)(2) or (b)(1) or (2), or as a result of the rehabilitation or demolition of the real property. (However, the displacement of a tenant as a direct result of any acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a Federal or federally assisted project is subject to this part.); (E) A person whom the agency determines is not displaced as a direct result of a partial acquisition; (F) A person who, after receiving a notice of relocation eligibility (described at &#xA7; 24.203(b)), is notified in writing that he or she will not be displaced for a project. Such written notification shall not be issued unless the person has not moved and the agency agrees to reimburse the person for any expenses incurred to satisfy any binding contractual relocation obligations entered into after the effective date of the notice of relocation eligibility; (G) An owner-occupant who conveys his or her property, as described in &#xA7; 24.101(a)(2) or (b)(1) or (2), after being informed in writing that if a mutually satisfactory agreement on terms of the conveyance cannot be reached, the agency will not acquire the property. In such cases, however, any resulting displacement of a tenant is subject to the regulations in this part; (H) A person who retains the right of use and occupancy of the real property for life following its acquisition by the agency; (I) An owner who retains the right of use and occupancy of the real property for a fixed term after its acquisition by the Department of the Interior under Public Law 93-477, Appropriations for National Park System, or Public Law 93-303, Land and Water Conservation Fund, except that such owner remains a displaced person for purposes of subpart D of this part; (J) A person who is determined to be in unlawful occupancy prior to or after the initiation of negotiations, or a person who has been evicted for cause, under applicable law, as provided for in &#xA7; 24.206. However, advisory assistance may be provided to unlawful occupants at the option of the agency in order to facilitate the project; (K) A person who is not lawfully present in the United States and who has been determined to be ineligible for relocation assistance in accordance with &#xA7; 24.208; or (L) Temporary, daily, or emergency shelter occupants are in most cases not considered displaced persons. However, agencies may determine that a person occupying a shelter is a displaced person due to factors which could include reasonable expectation of a prolonged stay, or other extenuating circumstances. At a minimum, agencies shall provide advisory assistance to all occupants at initiation of negotiations. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a), definition of displaced persons. ) Dwelling means the place of permanent or customary and usual residence of a person, according to local custom or law, including a single-family house; a single-family unit in a two-family, multi-family, or multi-purpose property; a unit of a condominium or cooperative housing project; a mobile home, or any other residential unit. Dwelling site means a land area that is typical in size for similar dwellings located in the same neighborhood or rural area. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a).) Farm operation means any activity conducted solely or primarily for the production of one or more agricultural products or commodities, including timber, for sale or home use, and customarily producing such products or commodities in sufficient quantity to be capable of contributing materially to the operator's support. Federal financial assistance means a grant, loan, or contribution provided by the United States, except any Federal guarantee, insurance or tax credits (Low Income Housing Tax Credit) and any interest reduction payment to an individual in connection with the purchase and occupancy of a residence by that individual. Household income means total gross income received for a 12-month period from all sources (earned and unearned) including, but not limited to wages, salary, child support, alimony, unemployment benefits, workers compensation, social security, or the net income from a business. It does not include income received or earned by dependent children under 18, or full-time students who are students for at least 5 months of the year and are under the age of 24. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a), for examples of exclusions to income.) Initiation of negotiations, unless a different action is specified in applicable Federal program regulations, means the following: (i) Whenever the displacement results from the acquisition of the real property by a Federal agency or State agency, the term means the delivery of the initial written offer of just compensation by the agency to the owner or the owner's representative to purchase the real property for the project. However, if the Federal agency or State agency issues a notice of its intent to acquire, rehabilitate, or demolish the real property, and a person moves after that notice, but before delivery of the initial written purchase offer, the term means the actual move of the person from the property. (ii) Whenever the displacement is caused by rehabilitation, demolition, or privately undertaken acquisition of the real property (and there is no related acquisition by a Federal agency or a State agency), the term means the notice to the person that he or she will be displaced by the project or, if there is no notice, the actual move of the person from the property. (iii) In the case of a permanent relocation to protect the public health and welfare, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-510, or Superfund), the term means the formal announcement of such relocation or the Federal or federally-coordinated health advisory where the Federal Government later decides to conduct a permanent relocation. (iv) In the case of permanent relocation of a tenant as a result of a voluntary-acquisition of real property described in &#xA7; 24.101(b)(1) the tenant is not eligible for relocation assistance under this part, until there is a binding written agreement between the agency and the owner that obligates the agency, without further election, to purchase the real property. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a).) Agreements such as options to purchase and conditional purchase and sale agreements are not considered a binding agreement within the meaning of this part unless such agreements satisfy the requirements of the Federal agency providing the Federal financial assistance or until all conditions to the agency's obligation to purchase the real property have been satisfied. Lead Agency means the Department of Transportation acting through the Federal Highway Administration. Mobile home (manufactured home), when used in this part, includes manufactured homes and recreational vehicles used as residences. The term manufactured home is defined at 24 CFR part 3280 ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.2(a)). Mortgage means such classes of liens as are commonly given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real property, under the laws of the State in which the real property is located, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby. Nonprofit organization means an organization that is incorporated under the applicable laws of a State as a nonprofit organization and exempt from paying Federal income taxes under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501). Owner of a dwelling means a person who is considered to have met the requirement to own a dwelling if the person purchases or holds any of the following interests in real property: (i) Fee title, a life estate, a land contract, a 99-year lease, or a lease including any options for extension with at least 50 years to run from the date of acquisition; or (ii) An interest in a cooperative housing project which includes the right to occupy a dwelling; or (iii) A contract to purchase any of the interests or estates described in this section; or (iv) Any other interest, including a partial interest, which in the judgment of the agency warrants consideration as ownership. Owner's or tenant's designated representative means a representative designated by a property owner or tenant to receive all required notifications and documents from the agency. The owner or tenant must provide the agency a written notification which states that they are designating a representative, provide that person's name and contact information and what if any notices or information, the representative is not authorized to receive. Person means any individual, family, partnership, corporation, or association. Program or project means any activity or series of activities undertaken by a Federal agency or with Federal financial assistance received or anticipated in any phase of an undertaking in accordance with the Federal funding agency guidelines. Recipient means a non-Federal entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal agency to carry out an activity under a Federal program. The recipient is accountable to the Federal funding agency for the use of the funds and for compliance with applicable Federal requirements. The term recipient does not include subrecipients. Reverse mortgage (also known as a Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM)) means a first mortgage which provides for future payments to the homeowner based on accumulated equity and which a housing creditor is authorized to make under any Federal law or State constitution, law, or regulation. See 12 U.S.C. 1715z-20 for additional information. It is a class of lien generally available to persons 62 years of age or older. Reverse mortgages do not require a monthly mortgage payment and can also be used to access a home's equity. The reverse mortgage becomes due when none of the original borrowers lives in the home, if taxes or insurance become delinquent, or if the property falls into disrepair. Salvage value means the probable sale price of an item offered for sale to knowledgeable buyers with the requirement that it be removed from the property at a buyer's expense ( i.e., not eligible for relocation assistance). This includes items for re-use as well as items with components that can be re-used or recycled when there is no reasonable prospect for sale except on this basis. Small business means a business having not more than 500 employees working at the site being acquired or displaced by a program or project, which site is the location of economic activity. Sites occupied solely by outdoor advertising signs, displays, or devices do not qualify as a business for purposes of &#xA7; 24.303 or &#xA7; 24.304. State means any of the several States of the United States or the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or a political subdivision of any of these jurisdictions. Subrecipient means a government agency or legal entity that enters into an agreement with a recipient to carry out part or all of the activity funded by Federal program grant funds. A subrecipient is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds and for compliance with applicable Federal requirements. Temporary, daily, or emergency shelter (shelter) means any facility, the primary purpose of which is to provide a person with a temporary overnight shelter which does not allow prolonged or guaranteed occupancy. A shelter typically requires the occupants to remove their personal property and themselves from the premises on a daily basis, offers no guarantee of reentry in the evening, and in most cases does not meet the definition of dwelling as used in this part. Tenant means a person who has the temporary use and occupancy of real property owned by another. Uneconomic remnant means a parcel of real property in which the owner is left with an interest after the partial acquisition of the owners' property, and which the agency has determined has little or no value or utility to the owner. Uniform Act or Act means the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894; 42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq. ), and amendments thereto. Unlawful occupant means a person who occupies without property right, title, or payment of rent, or a person legally evicted, with no legal rights to occupy a property under State law. An agency, at its discretion, may consider such person to be in lawful occupancy for the purpose of determining eligibility for assistance under the Uniform Act. Utility costs means expenses for electricity, gas, other heating and cooking fuels, water, and sewer. Utility facility means: (i) Any line, facility, or system for producing, transporting, transmitting, or distributing communications, cable, television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water, steam, waste, storm water not connected with highway drainage, or any other similar commodity, including any fire or police signal system or street lighting system, which directly or indirectly serves the public; any fixtures, equipment, or other property associated with the operation, maintenance, or repair of any such system. A utility facility may be publicly, privately, or cooperatively owned. (ii) The term shall also mean the utility company including any substantially owned or controlled subsidiary. For the purposes of this part the term includes those utility-type facilities which are owned or leased by a Government agency for its own use, or otherwise dedicated solely to Governmental use. The term utility includes those facilities used solely by the utility which are part of its operating plant. Utility relocation means the adjustment of a utility facility required by the program or project undertaken by the agency. It includes removing and reinstalling the facility, including necessary temporary facilities; necessary right-of-way on a new location; moving, rearranging, or changing the type of existing facilities; and taking any necessary safety and protective measures. It shall also mean constructing a replacement facility that has the functional equivalency of the existing facility and is necessary for the continued operation of the utility service, the project economy, or sequence of project construction. Waiver valuation means the valuation process used and the product produced when the agency determines that an appraisal is not required, pursuant to &#xA7; 24.102(c)(2) appraisal waiver provisions. Waiver valuations are not appraisals as defined by the Uniform Act and this part. (b) Acronyms. The following acronyms are commonly used in the implementation of programs subject to this part: (1) DOT (U.S. Department of Transportation). (2) FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency). (3) FHA (Federal Housing Administration). (4) FHWA (Federal Highway Administration). (5) FIRREA (Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989). (6) HLR (housing of last resort). (7) HUD (U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development). (8) MIDP (mortgage interest differential payment). (9) RHP (replacement housing payment). (10) STURAA (Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987). (11) UA or URA (Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970). (12) USCIS (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services). (13) USPAP (Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice). &#xA7; 24.3 No duplication of payments. No person shall receive any payment under this part if that person receives a payment under Federal, State, local law, or insurance proceeds which is determined by the agency to have the same purpose and effect as such payment under this part. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.3.) &#xA7; 24.4 Assurances, monitoring, and corrective action. (a) Assurances. (1) Before a Federal agency may approve any grant to, or contract, or agreement with, an agency under which Federal financial assistance will be made available for a project which results in real property acquisition or displacement that is subject to the Uniform Act, the agency must provide appropriate assurances that it will comply with the Uniform Act and this part. An agency's assurances shall be in accordance with sections 4630 and 4655 of the Uniform Act. The agency's Uniform Act section 4655 assurances must contain specific reference to any State law which the agency believes provides an exception to sections 4651 or 4652 of the Uniform Act. If, in the judgment of the Federal agency, Uniform Act compliance will be served, an agency may provide these assurances at one time to cover all subsequent federally assisted programs or projects. An agency, which both acquires real property and displaces persons, may combine its sections 4630 and 4655 of the Uniform Act assurances in one document. (2) If a Federal agency or recipient provides Federal financial assistance to a person causing displacement, such Federal agency or recipient is responsible for ensuring compliance with the requirements of this part, notwithstanding the person's contractual obligation to the recipient to comply with the requirements of this part. (3) As an alternative to the assurance requirement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a Federal agency may provide Federal financial assistance to a recipient after it has accepted a certification by such recipient in accordance with the requirements in subpart G of this part. (b) Monitoring and corrective action. The Federal agency will monitor compliance with this part, and the agency shall take whatever corrective action is necessary to comply with the Uniform Act and this part. The Federal agency may also apply sanctions in accordance with applicable program regulations. ( Also see &#xA7; 24.603) (c) Prevention of fraud, waste, and mismanagement. The agency shall take appropriate measures to carry out this part in a manner that minimizes fraud, waste, and mismanagement. &#xA7; 24.5 Manner of notices and electronic signatures. (a) Each notice that the agency is required to provide to a property owner or occupant under this part, except the notice described at &#xA7; 24.102(b), shall be personally served or sent by certified or registered first-class mail, return receipt requested (or by companies other than the United States Postal Service that provide the same function as certified mail with return receipts) and documented in agency files. A Federal funding agency may approve a process to permit the displaced person to elect to receive required notices by electronic delivery in lieu of the use of certified or registered first-class mail, return receipt requested, or personally served notices, when an agency demonstrates a means to document receipt of such notices by the property owner or occupant. A Federal funding agency may approve a process to permit the use of electronic signature which meet the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section. (b) An agency requesting use of electronic delivery of notices must include the following safeguards: (1) A process to inform property owners and occupants they will continue to receive Notices as described in paragraph (a) of this section unless they voluntarily elect to receive electronic notices. (2) A process to document and record when information is legally delivered in digital format. A date and timestamp must establish the date of delivery and receipt with an electronic record capable of retention. (3) A process to link the electronic signature with an electronic document in a way that can be used to determine whether the electronic document was changed subsequent to when an electronic signature was applied to the document. (4) A certification that use of electronic notices is consistent with existing State and Federal laws. (c) Each notice shall be written in plain, understandable language. Persons who are unable to read and understand the notice must be provided with appropriate translation and counseling. Each notice shall indicate the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for answers to questions or other needed help. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.5.) (d) A property owner or tenant may designate a representative to receive offers, correspondence, and information and to provide any information on their behalf required by the displacing agency by providing a written request to the agency (see &#xA7; 24.2(a), definition of owner's or tenant's designated representative ). (e) An agency requesting use of electronic signature of documents must include the following safeguards: (1) A process to document and record when information is legally delivered in digital format. A date and timestamp must establish the date of delivery and receipt with an electronic record capable of retention. (2) A process to link the electronic signature with an electronic document in a way that can be used to determine whether the electronic document was changed subsequent to when an electronic signature was applied to the document. (3) A certification that use of electronic signatures is consistent with existing State and Federal laws. &#xA7; 24.6 Administration of jointly-funded projects. Whenever two or more Federal agencies provide financial assistance to an agency or agencies, other than a Federal agency, to carry out functionally or geographically related activities which will result in the acquisition of property or the displacement of a person, the Federal agencies may by agreement designate one such agency as the cognizant Federal agency. In the unlikely event that agreement among the agencies cannot be reached as to which agency shall be the cognizant Federal agency, then the Lead Agency shall designate one of such agencies to assume the cognizant role. At a minimum, the agreement shall set forth the federally assisted activities which are subject to its terms and cite any policies and procedures, in addition to this part, that are applicable to the activities under the agreement. Under the agreement, the cognizant Federal agency shall ensure that the project is in compliance with the provisions of the Uniform Act and this part. All federally assisted activities under the agreement shall be deemed a project for the purposes of this part. &#xA7; 24.7 Federal agency waiver of regulations in this part. The Federal agency funding the project may waive any requirement in this part not required by law if it determines that the waiver does not reduce any assistance or protection provided to an owner or displaced person under this part. Any request for a waiver shall be justified on a case-by-case basis. &#xA7; 24.8 Compliance with other laws and regulations. The implementation of this part must be in compliance with other applicable Federal laws and implementing regulations, including, but not limited to, the following: (a) Section I of the Civil Rights Act of 1866 (42 U.S.C. 1982 et seq. ). (b) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq. ). (c) The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq. ), as amended. (d) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ). (e) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 790 et seq. ). (f) The Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4002 et seq. ). (g) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq. ). (h) Executive Order 11063-Equal Opportunity and Housing, as amended by Executive Order 12892. (i) Executive Order 11246-Equal Employment Opportunity, as amended. (j) Executive Order 11625-Minority Business Enterprise. (k) Executive Orders 11988-Floodplain Management, and 11990-Protection of Wetlands. (l) Executive Order 12250-Leadership and Coordination of Non-Discrimination Laws. (m) Executive Order 12630-Governmental Actions and Interference with Constitutionally Protected Property Rights. (n) Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq. ). (o) Executive Order 12892-Leadership and Coordination of Fair Housing in Federal Programs: Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing. &#xA7; 24.9 Recordkeeping and reports. (a) Records. The agency shall maintain adequate records of its acquisition and displacement activities in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with this part. These records shall be retained for at least 3 years after each owner of a property and each person displaced from the property receives the final payment to which he or she is entitled under this part, or in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Federal funding agency, whichever is later. (b) Confidentiality of records. Records maintained by an agency in accordance with this part are confidential regarding their use as public information, unless applicable law provides otherwise. (c) Reports. Each Federal agency that has programs or projects requiring the acquisition of real property or causing a displacement from real property subject to the provisions of the Uniform Act shall provide to the Lead Agency an annual summary report by November 15 that describes the real property acquisitions, displacements, and related activities conducted by the Federal agency for the prior calendar year. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.9(c).) &#xA7; 24.10 Appeals. (a) General. The agency shall promptly review appeals in accordance with the requirements of applicable law and this part. (b) Actions which may be appealed. Any aggrieved person may file a written appeal with the agency in any case in which the person believes that the agency has failed to properly consider the person's application for assistance under this part. Such assistance may include, but is not limited to, the person's eligibility for, or the amount of, a payment required under &#xA7; 24.106 or &#xA7; 24.107, or a relocation payment required under this part. The agency shall consider a written appeal regardless of form. (c) Time limit for initiating appeal. The agency may set a reasonable time limit for a person to file an appeal. The time limit shall not be less than 60 days after the person receives written notification of the agency's determination on the person's claim. (d) Right to representation. A person has a right to be represented by legal counsel or other representative in connection with his or her appeal, but solely at the person's own expense. (e) Review of files by person making appeal. The agency shall permit a person to inspect and copy all materials pertinent to his or her appeal, except materials which are classified as confidential by the agency. The agency may, however, impose reasonable conditions on the person's right to inspect, consistent with applicable laws. (f) Scope of review of appeal. In deciding an appeal, the agency shall consider all pertinent justification and other material submitted by the person, and all other available information that is needed to ensure a fair and full review of the appeal. (g) Determination and notification after appeal. Promptly after receipt of all information submitted by a person in support of an appeal, the agency shall make a written determination on the appeal, including an explanation of the basis on which the decision was made, and furnish the person a copy. If the full relief requested is not granted, the agency shall inform the person that the determination is the agency's final decision and that the person may seek judicial review of the agency's determination. (h) Agency official to review appeal. The agency official conducting the review of the appeal shall be either the head of the agency or his or her authorized designee. However, the official shall not have been directly involved in the action appealed. &#xA7; 24.11 Adjustments of limits and payments. (a) The Lead Agency may adjust the following valuation limits and maximum relocation benefits payments: (1) The waiver valuation limits at &#xA7; 24.102(c)(2)(ii) introductory text and (c)(2)(ii)(C); (2) The conflict of interest valuation limits at &#xA7; 24.102(n)(3); and (3) The maximum amounts of relocation payments provided at &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.301, 24.304, 24.305, 24.401, 24.402, 24.502, and 24.503. (b) The head of the Lead Agency will evaluate whether the cost of living, inflation, or other factors indicate that limits, and payments provided in paragraph (a) of this section, should be adjusted to meet the policy objectives of the Uniform Act. The Lead Agency will divide the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) index for the year of the assessment (current year), by the CPI-U index for the year of the previous assessment (base year index/year of last adjustment) to determine the effect of inflation over the assessment period. If adjustments are determined to be necessary, the head of the Lead Agency will publish the new maximum benefit limits eligible for Federal participation in the Federal Register. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.11.) Subpart B-Real Property Acquisition &#xA7; 24.101 Applicability of acquisition requirements. (a) Direct Federal program or project. (1) The requirements of this subpart apply to any acquisition of real property for a direct Federal program or project, except acquisition for a program or project that is undertaken by the Tennessee Valley Authority or the Rural Utilities Service. (See appendix A to this part, section 24.101(a).) (2) If a Federal agency (except for the Tennessee Valley Authority or the Rural Utilities Service) will not acquire a property because negotiations fail to result in an agreement, the owner of the property or the owner's designated representative shall be so informed in writing. Owners of such properties are not displaced persons, and as such, are not entitled to relocation assistance benefits. However, tenants on such properties may be eligible for relocation assistance benefits. ( See &#xA7; 24.2(a).) (b) Programs and projects receiving Federal financial assistance. The requirements of this subpart apply to any acquisition of real property for programs and projects where there is Federal financial assistance in any part of project costs except for the acquisitions described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. The relocation assistance provisions in this part are not applicable to owner-occupants who move as a result of a voluntary acquisition. ( See &#xA7; 24.2(a), definition of displaced person. ) The relocation assistance provisions in this part are applicable to tenants who must permanently relocate as a result of an acquisition described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. Such tenants are considered displaced persons. ( See &#xA7; 24.2(a), definition of displaced person. ) (1) The agency will not use the power of eminent domain to acquire the property, and the following conditions are met: (i) No later than the time of the offer the agency informs the owner of the property or the owner's designated representative in writing of the following: (A) The agency will not acquire the property if negotiations fail to result in an amicable agreement; and (B) The agency's estimate of fair market value for the property to be acquired. ( See appendix A to this part, sections 24.101(b)(1)(i) and 24.101(b)(1)(i)(B).) (ii) Where an agency wishes to purchase more than one property within a general geographic area on this basis, all owners are to be treated similarly. (See appendix A to this part, section 24.101(b)(1)(ii).) (iii) The property to be acquired is not part of an intended, planned, or designated project area where all or substantially all of the property within the area must be acquired within specific time limits. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.101(b)(1)(iii).) (2) The acquisition of real property by a cooperative from a person who, as a condition of membership in the cooperative, has agreed to provide without charge any real property that is needed by the cooperative. (3) Acquisition for a program or project that receives Federal financial assistance from the Tennessee Valley Authority or the Rural Utilities Service. (c) Less-than-full-fee interest in real property. (1) The provisions of this subpart apply when acquiring fee title subject to retention of a life estate or a life use; to acquisition by leasing where the lease term, including option(s) for extension, is 50 years or more; and, to the acquisition of permanent and/or temporary easements necessary for the project. However, the agency may apply the regulations in this subpart to any less-than-full-fee acquisition that, in its judgment, should be covered. (2) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to temporary easements or permits needed solely to perform work intended exclusively for the benefit of the property owner, which work may not be done if agreement cannot be reached. (d) Federally-assisted projects. For projects receiving Federal financial assistance, the provisions of &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.102, 24.103, 24.104, and 24.105 apply to the greatest extent practicable under State law. ( See &#xA7; 24.4(a).) &#xA7; 24.102 Basic acquisition policies. (a) Expeditious acquisition. The agency shall make every reasonable effort to acquire the real property expeditiously by negotiation. (b) Notice to owner. As soon as feasible, the agency shall notify the owner in writing of the agency's interest in acquiring the real property and the basic protections provided to the owner by law and this part. ( See &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.203 and 24.5(d) and appendix A to this part, section 24.102(b).) (c) Appraisal, waiver thereof, and invitation to owner. (1) Before the initiation of negotiations, the real property to be acquired shall be appraised, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and the owner, or the owner's designated representative, shall be given an opportunity to accompany the appraiser during the appraiser's inspection of the property. (2) An appraisal is not required if: (i) The owner is donating the property and releases the agency from its obligation to appraise the property; or (ii) The agency determines that an appraisal is unnecessary because the valuation problem is uncomplicated and has a low fair market value, and the anticipated value of the proposed acquisition is estimated at $15,000 or less, based on a review of available data. The agency representative making the determination to use the waiver valuation option must understand valuation principles, techniques, and use of appraisals in order to be able to determine whether the valuation of the proposed acquisition is uncomplicated and has a low fair market value. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(c)(2).) (A) When an appraisal is determined to be unnecessary, the agency shall prepare a waiver valuation. ( 1 ) Waiver valuations are not appraisals by definition in this part ( See &#xA7; 24.2). Persons preparing or reviewing a waiver valuation are precluded from complying with Standards Rules 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the &#x201C;Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice,&#x201D; as promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of The Appraisal Foundation 1 ( see appendix A to this part, sections 24.102(c) and 24.103(a).) 1 Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP). Published by The Appraisal Foundation, a nonprofit educational organization. Copies may be ordered from The Appraisal Foundation. ( 2 ) Because a waiver valuation is not an appraisal, a review of a waiver valuation is not required. However, some recipients may also be subject to State laws or agency requirements to review a waiver valuation. (B) The person performing the waiver valuation must have sufficient understanding of the local real estate market in order to be qualified to perform the waiver valuation. (C) The Federal agency funding the project may approve exceeding the $15,000 threshold, up to an amount of $35,000, if the agency acquiring the real property offers the property owner the option of having the agency appraise the property. (D) If the agency determines that the proposed acquisition is uncomplicated and has a low fair market value, and if the agency acquiring the real property offers the property owner the option of having the agency appraise the property, the agency may request approval from the Federal funding agency to use a waiver valuation for properties with estimated values of more than $35,000 and up to $50,000. Approval for using a waiver valuation of more than $35,000, but up to $50,000 may only be requested on a project-by-project basis and the request for doing so shall be made in writing to the Federal funding agency setting forth the anticipated benefits of, and reasons for, raising the waiver valuation ceiling above $35,000. Within 6 months of completion of acquisition activities a close-out report measuring cost/time benefits, condemnation rate, settlement rate, and any other relevant metric which the funding agency requires to adequately document both the administrative savings and accuracy and efficacy of the waiver valuations of more than $35,000, but up to $50,000 shall be submitted to the funding agency. (E) Under paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section, if the property owner elects to have the agency appraise the property, the agency must obtain an appraisal and shall not use the waiver valuation procedures described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(c)(2).) (d) Establishment and offer of just compensation. Before the initiation of negotiations, the agency shall establish an amount which it believes is just compensation for the real property. The amount shall not be less than the approved appraisal or waiver valuation of the fair market value of the property, taking into account the value of allowable damages or benefits to any remaining property. An agency official must establish the amount believed to be just compensation. ( See &#xA7; 24.104.) Promptly thereafter, the agency shall make a written offer to the owner or the designated owner's representative to acquire the property for the full amount believed to be just compensation. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(d).) (e) Summary statement. Along with the initial written purchase offer, the owner or the designated owner's representative shall be given a written statement of the basis for the offer of just compensation, which shall include: (1) A statement of the amount offered as just compensation. In the case of a partial acquisition, the compensation for the real property to be acquired and the compensation for damages, if any, to the remaining real property shall be separately stated. (2) A description and location identification of the real property and the interest in the real property to be acquired. (3) An identification of the buildings, structures, and other improvements (including removable building equipment and trade fixtures) which are included as part of the offer of just compensation. Where appropriate, the statement shall identify any other separately held ownership interest in the property, e.g., a tenant-owned improvement, and indicate that such interest is not covered by this offer. (f) Basic negotiation procedures. The agency shall make all reasonable efforts to contact the owner or the owner's designated representative and discuss its offer to purchase the property, including the basis for the offer of just compensation and explain its acquisition policies and procedures, including its payment of incidental expenses in accordance with &#xA7; 24.106. The owner shall be given reasonable opportunity to consider the offer and present material which the owner believes is relevant to determining the value of the property and to suggest modification in the proposed terms and conditions of the purchase. The agency shall consider the owner's or the designated owner's representative's presentation. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(f).) (g) Updating offer of just compensation. If the information presented by the owner, or a material change in the character or condition of the property, indicates the need for new waiver valuation or appraisal information, or if a significant delay has occurred since the time of the appraisal(s) or waiver valuation of the property, the agency shall have the appraisal(s) or waiver valuation updated or obtain a new appraisal(s) or waiver valuation. If the latest appraisal or waiver valuation information indicates that a change in the purchase offer is warranted, the agency shall promptly reestablish just compensation and offer that amount to the owner in writing. (h) Coercive action. The agency shall not advance the time of condemnation, or defer negotiations or condemnation, or the deposit of funds with the court, or take any other coercive action in order to induce an agreement on the price to be paid for the property. (i) Administrative settlement. The purchase price for the property may exceed the amount offered as just compensation when reasonable efforts to negotiate an agreement at that amount have failed and an authorized agency official approves such administrative settlement as being reasonable, prudent, and in the public interest. When Federal funds pay for or participate in acquisition costs, a written justification shall be prepared, which states what available information, including trial risks, supports such a settlement. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(i).) (j) Payment before taking possession. Before requiring the owner to surrender possession of the real property, the agency shall pay the agreed purchase price to the owner, or in the case of a condemnation, deposit with the court, for the benefit of the owner, an amount not less than the agency's approved appraisal of the fair market value of such property, or the court award of compensation in the condemnation proceeding for the property. In exceptional circumstances, with the prior approval of the owner or the owner's designated representative, the agency may obtain a right-of-entry for construction purposes before making payment available to an owner. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(j).) (k) Uneconomic remnant. If the acquisition of only a portion of a property would leave the owner with an uneconomic remnant, the agency shall offer to acquire the uneconomic remnant along with the portion of the property needed for the project. ( See &#xA7; 24.2(a).) (l) Inverse condemnation. If the agency intends to acquire any interest in real property by exercise of the power of eminent domain, it shall institute formal condemnation proceedings and not intentionally make it necessary for the owner to institute legal proceedings to prove the fact of the taking of the real property. (m) Fair rental. If the agency permits a former owner or tenant to occupy the real property after acquisition for a short term, or a period subject to termination by the agency on short notice, the rent shall not exceed the fair market rent for such occupancy. (See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(m).) (n) Conflict of interest. (1) The appraiser, review appraiser, or person performing the waiver valuation shall not have any interest, direct or indirect, in the real property being valued for the agency. Compensation for developing an appraisal or waiver valuation shall not be based on the reported opinion of value. (2) No person shall attempt to unduly influence or coerce an appraiser, review appraiser, or waiver valuation preparer regarding any valuation aspect of an appraisal, waiver valuation, or review of appraisals or waiver valuations. Persons functioning as negotiators may not supervise or formally evaluate the performance of any appraiser, waiver valuation preparer, or review appraiser performing appraisal or appraisal review work, except that, for a program or project receiving Federal financial assistance, the Federal funding agency may waive this requirement if it determines it would create a hardship for the agency. (3) An appraiser, review appraiser, or waiver valuation preparer may be authorized by the agency to act as a negotiator for the acquisition of real property for which that person has performed an appraisal, appraisal review or waiver valuation only if the offer to acquire the property is $15,000, or less. Agencies that wish to use this same authority to act as the negotiator on a valuation greater than $15,000, and up to $35,000, may not use a waiver valuation, and these acquisitions are subject to the following conditions: (i) For those acquisitions where the appraiser or review appraiser will also act as the negotiator, an appraisal must be performed in compliance with &#xA7; 24.103 and reviewed in compliance with &#xA7; 24.104; (ii) Agencies and recipients desiring to exercise this option must request approval in writing from the Federal funding agency; (iii) The requesting agency shall have a separate and distinct quality control process in place and set forth in the written procedures approved by the Federal funding agency; and (4) Agencies wishing to allow subrecipients to use conflict of interest waivers of more than $15,000 must determine and document that the subrecipient has a separate and distinct quality control process in place which is set forth in written procedures approved by the agency or in an agency approved subrecipient's written procedures. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.102(n).) Agencies and recipients desiring to exercise this option must request approval in writing from the Federal funding agency. &#xA7; 24.103 Criteria for appraisals. (a) Appraisal requirements. This section sets forth the requirements for real property acquisition appraisals for Federal and federally assisted programs. Appraisals are to be performed according to this section, which is intended to be consistent with the USPAP. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.103(a).) The agency may have appraisal requirements that supplement this section, including, and to the extent appropriate, the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition (UASFLA), also commonly referred to as the &#x201C;Yellow Book&#x201D;. The USPAP is published by The Appraisal Foundation. The UASFLA is published by the Appraisal Foundation in partnership with the Department of Justice on behalf of the Interagency Land Acquisition Conference. The UASFLA is a compendium of Federal eminent domain appraisal law, both case and statute, regulations, and practices. 1 Copies of the USPAP and the UASFLA may be ordered from The Appraisal Foundation in print and electronic forms. 2 1 www.justice.gov/file/408306/download. 2 http://www.appraisalfoundation.org/imis/TAF/Standards/Appraisal_Standards/TAF/Standards.aspx. (1) The agency acquiring real property has a legitimate role in contributing to the appraisal process, especially in developing the scope of work and defining the appraisal problem. The scope of work and performance of an appraisal under this section depends on the complexity of the appraisal problem. (2) The agency has the responsibility to assure that the appraisals it obtains are relevant to its program needs, reflect established and commonly accepted Federal and federally assisted program appraisal practice, and at a minimum, comply with the definition of appraisal in &#xA7; 24.2(a) and the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. ( See appendix A to this part, sections 24.103 and Section 24.103(a).) (i) An adequate description of the physical characteristics of the property being appraised (and, in the case of a partial acquisition, an adequate description of the remaining property), including items identified as personal property, a statement of the known and observed encumbrances, if any, title information, location, zoning, present use, an analysis of highest and best use, and at least a 5-year sales history of the property. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.103(a)(1).) (ii) All relevant and reliable approaches to value consistent with established Federal and federally assisted program appraisal practices. If the appraiser uses more than one approach, there shall be an analysis and reconciliation of approaches to value use that is sufficient to support the appraiser's opinion of value. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.103(a).) (iii) A description of comparable sales, including a description of all relevant physical, legal, and economic factors such as parties to the transaction, source and method of financing, and verification by a party involved in the transaction. (iv) A statement of the value of the real property to be acquired and, for a partial acquisition, a statement of the value of the damages and benefits, if any, to the remaining real property, where appropriate. (v) The effective date of valuation, date of appraisal, signature, and certification of the appraiser. (b) Influence of the project on just compensation. The appraiser shall disregard any decrease or increase in the fair market value of the real property caused by the project for which the property is to be acquired, or by the likelihood that the property would be acquired for the project, other than that due to physical deterioration within the reasonable control of the owner. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.103(b).) (c) Owner retention of improvements. If the owner of a real property improvement is permitted to retain it for removal from the project site, the amount to be offered for the interest in the real property to be acquired shall not be less than the difference between the amount determined to be just compensation for the owner's interest in the real property and the salvage value (defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a)) of the retained improvement. (d) Qualifications of appraisers and review appraisers. (1) The agency shall establish criteria for determining the minimum qualifications and competency of appraisers and review appraisers. Qualifications shall be consistent with the scope of work for the assignment. The agency shall review the experience, education, training, certification/licensing, designation(s) and other qualifications of appraisers, and review appraisers, and use only those determined by the agency to be qualified. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.103(d)(1).) (2) If the agency uses a contract (fee) appraiser to perform the appraisal, such appraiser shall be State licensed or certified in accordance with title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3331 et seq. ). &#xA7; 24.104 Review of appraisals. The agency shall have an appraisal review process and, at a minimum: (a) A qualified review appraiser ( see &#xA7; 24.103(d)(1) and appendix A to this part, section 24.104) shall examine the presentation and analysis of market information in all appraisals to ensure that they meet the definition of appraisal found in &#xA7; 24.2(a), appraisal requirements found in &#xA7; 24.103, and other applicable requirements (including, to the extent appropriate, the UASFLA), and support the appraiser's opinion of value. The level of review analysis depends on the complexity of the appraisal problem ( see &#xA7; 24.103(a)(1) and appendix A, section 24.104(a)). As needed, the review appraiser shall, prior to acceptance of an appraisal report, seek necessary corrections or revisions. The review appraiser shall identify each appraisal report as recommended (as the basis for the establishment of the amount believed to be just compensation), accepted (meets all requirements, but not selected as recommended or approved), or not accepted. If authorized by the agency to do so, the staff review appraiser shall also approve the appraisal (as the basis for the establishment of the amount believed to be just compensation), and, if also authorized to do so, develop and report the amount believed to be just compensation. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.104(a).) (b) If the review appraiser is unable to recommend (or approve) an appraisal as an adequate basis for the establishment of the offer of just compensation, and it is determined by the agency that it is not practical to obtain an additional appraisal, the review appraiser may, as part of the review, present and analyze market information in conformance with &#xA7; 24.103 to support a recommended (or approved) value. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.104(b).) (c) The review appraiser shall prepare a written report that identifies the appraisal reports reviewed and documents the findings and conclusions arrived at during the review of the appraisal(s). Any damages or benefits to any remaining property shall be identified in the review appraiser's report. The review appraiser shall also prepare a signed certification that states the parameters of the review. The certification shall state the approved value and, if the review appraiser is authorized to do so, the amount believed to be just compensation for the acquisition. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.104(c).) &#xA7; 24.105 Acquisition of tenant-owned improvements. (a) Acquisition of improvements. When acquiring any interest in real property, the agency shall offer to acquire at least an equal interest in all buildings, structures, or other improvements located upon the real property to be acquired, which it requires to be removed or which it determines will be adversely affected by the use to which such real property will be put. This shall include any improvement owned by a tenant-owner who has the right or obligation to remove the improvement at the expiration of the lease term. (b) Improvements considered to be real property. Any building, structure, or other improvement, which would be considered real property if owned by the owner of the real property on which it is located, shall be considered to be real property for purposes of this subpart. (c) Appraisal and establishment of just compensation for a tenant-owned improvement. Just compensation for a tenant-owned improvement is the amount which the improvement contributes to the fair market value of the whole property, or its salvage value, whichever is greater. (Salvage value is defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a).) (d) Special conditions for tenant-owned improvements. No payment shall be made to a tenant-owner for any real property improvement unless: (1) The tenant-owner, in consideration for the payment, assigns, transfers, and releases to the agency all of the tenant-owner's right, title, and interest in the improvement; (2) The owner of the real property on which the improvement is located disclaims all interest in the improvement; and (3) The payment does not result in the duplication of any compensation otherwise authorized by law. (e) Alternative compensation. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to deprive the tenant-owner of any right to reject payment under this subpart and to obtain payment for such property interests in accordance with other applicable law. &#xA7; 24.106 Expenses incidental to transfer of title to the agency. (a) The owner of the real property shall be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses the owner necessarily incurred for: (1) Recording fees, transfer taxes, documentary stamps, evidence of title, boundary surveys, legal descriptions of the real property, and similar expenses incidental to conveying the real property to the agency. However, the agency is not required to pay costs solely required to perfect the owner's title to the real property; (2) Penalty costs and other charges for prepayment of any preexisting recorded mortgage entered into in good faith encumbering the real property; and (3) The pro rata portion of any prepaid real property taxes which are allocable to the period after the agency obtains title to the property or effective possession of it, whichever is earlier. (b) Whenever feasible, the agency shall pay these costs directly to the billing agent so that the owner will not have to pay such costs and then seek reimbursement from the agency. &#xA7; 24.107 Certain litigation expenses. The owner of the real property shall be reimbursed for any reasonable expenses, including reasonable attorney, appraisal, and engineering fees, which the owner actually incurred because of a condemnation proceeding, if: (a) The final judgment of the court is that the agency cannot acquire the real property by condemnation; (b) The condemnation proceeding is abandoned by the agency other than under an agreed-upon settlement; or (c) The court having jurisdiction renders a judgment in favor of the owner in an inverse condemnation proceeding or the agency effects a settlement of such proceeding. &#xA7; 24.108 Donations. An owner whose real property is being acquired may, after being fully informed by the agency of the right to receive just compensation for such property, donate such property or any part thereof, any interest therein, or any compensation paid therefore, to the agency as such owner shall determine. The agency is responsible for ensuring that an appraisal of the real property is obtained unless the owner releases the agency from such obligation, except as provided in &#xA7; 24.102(c)(2). Subpart C-General Relocation Requirements &#xA7; 24.201 Purpose. This subpart prescribes general requirements governing the provision of relocation payments and other relocation assistance in this part. &#xA7; 24.202 Applicability. The requirements in this subpart apply to the relocation of any permanently or temporarily displaced person, as defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a). Any person who qualifies as a permanently or temporarily displaced person must be fully informed of his or her rights and entitlements to relocation assistance and payments provided by the Uniform Act and this part. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.202.) (a) Persons required to move temporarily. (1) Appropriate notices must be provided in accordance with &#xA7; 24.203 and appropriate advisory services must be provided in accordance with &#xA7; 24.205; (2) For persons occupying a dwelling, at least one comparable dwelling, is made available prior to requiring a person to move, except in the case of an emergency move as described in &#xA7; 24.204(b)(1), (2), or (3) (see appendix A, to this part, section 24.202); (3) Similarly, if a person's business will be shut down due to a project which either requires the occupant to vacate the property or which denies physical access to the property, it may be temporarily relocated and reimbursed for all reasonable out of pocket expenses or must be determined to be permanently displaced at the agency's option; (4) Payment is provided for all out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation as the agency determines to be reasonable and necessary, associated with comparable replacement dwelling, and incidental to selecting a temporary comparable replacement dwelling. Such payments may include the reasonable and necessary costs of temporarily moving personal property from the real property and returning to the real property. Storage of the personal property may be allowed when approved by the displacing agency; (5) A person's temporary move from their dwelling or business for the project may not exceed 12 months. The agency must contact any person who has temporarily moved from their dwelling or business when that temporary move has lasted for a period beyond 12 months because that person is considered permanently displaced and eligible as a displaced person. The agency shall offer such eligible persons all required relocation assistance benefits and services for permanently displaced persons. An agency may not deduct any temporary relocation assistance benefits previously provided when determining permanent relocation benefits eligibility; and (6) A person who is not lawfully present in the United States and who has been determined to be ineligible for relocation assistance in accordance with &#xA7; 24.208 is not eligible for temporary relocation assistance unless such denial of benefits would create an extremely unusual hardship to a designated family member in accordance with &#xA7; 24.208(h). (b) [Reserved] &#xA7; 24.203 Relocation notices. (a) General information notice. As soon as feasible, a person who may be displaced or who may be required to move temporarily shall be furnished with a general written description of the agency's relocation program which does at least the following: (1) Informs the person that he or she may be displaced (or, if appropriate, required to move temporarily from his or her unit) for the project and generally describes the relocation payment(s) for which the person may be eligible, the basic conditions of eligibility, and the procedures for obtaining the payment(s); (2) Informs the displaced person (or person required to move temporarily from his or her unit, if appropriate) that he or she will be given reasonable relocation advisory services, including referrals to replacement properties, help in filing payment claims, and other necessary assistance to help the displaced person successfully relocate; (3) Informs the displaced person (or person required to move temporarily from his or her dwelling when required by the Federal funding agency) that he or she will not be required to move without at least 90 days advance written notice (see paragraph (c) of this section), and informs any person to be displaced from a dwelling, either permanently or temporarily (when required by the Federal funding agency), that he or she cannot be required to move unless at least one comparable replacement dwelling has been made available; (4) Informs the displaced person or person required to move temporarily that any person who is an alien not lawfully present in the United States is ineligible for relocation advisory services and relocation payments under this part, unless such ineligibility would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to a qualifying spouse, parent, or child, pursuant to &#xA7; 24.208(h); and (5) Describes to the displaced person (or persons required to move temporarily) their right to appeal the agency's determination as to a person's application for assistance for which a person may be eligible under this part. (b) Notice of relocation eligibility. Eligibility for relocation assistance shall begin on the earliest of: the date of a notice of intent to acquire, rehabilitate, and/or demolish (described in paragraph (d) of this section); the initiation of negotiations (defined in &#xA7; 24.2(a)); the date that an agreement for voluntary acquisition becomes binding (defined in &#xA7; 24.2(a)); or actual acquisition. When this occurs, the agency shall promptly notify all occupants in writing of their eligibility for applicable relocation assistance. (c) Ninety-day notice -(1) General. No lawful occupant shall be required to move unless he or she has received at least 90 days advance written notice of the earliest date by which he or she may be required to move. (2) Timing of notice. The agency may issue the notice 90 days or earlier before it expects the person to be displaced. (3) Content of notice. The 90-day notice shall either state a specific date as the earliest date by which the occupant may be required to move, or state that the occupant will receive a further notice indicating, at least 30 days in advance, the specific date by which he or she must move. If the 90-day notice is issued before a comparable replacement dwelling is made available, the notice must state clearly that the occupant will not have to move earlier than 90 days after such a dwelling is made available. ( See &#xA7; 24.204(a).) (4) Urgent need. In unusual circumstances, an occupant may be required to vacate the property on less than 90 days advance written notice if the agency determines that a 90-day notice is impracticable, such as when the person's continued occupancy of the property would constitute a substantial danger to health or safety. A copy of the agency's determination shall be included in the applicable case file. (d) Notice of intent to acquire, rehabilitate, and/or demolish. A notice of intent to acquire, rehabilitate, and/or demolish is an agency's written communication that is provided to a person to be displaced, including persons required to temporarily move, which clearly sets forth that the agency intends to acquire, rehabilitate, and/or demolish the property. A notice of intent to acquire, rehabilitate, and/or demolish establishes eligibility for relocation assistance prior to the initiation of negotiations and/or prior to the commitment of Federal financial assistance to the activity. ( See &#xA7; 24.2 (a).) &#xA7; 24.204 Availability of comparable replacement dwelling before displacement. (a) General. No person to be permanently displaced shall be required to move from his or her dwelling unless at least one comparable replacement dwelling (defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a)) has been made available to the person. Information on comparable replacement dwellings that were used in the determination process must be provided to permanently displaced persons. When possible, three or more comparable replacement dwellings shall be made available. A comparable replacement dwelling will be considered to have been made available to a person, if: (1) The person is informed in writing of its location; (2) The person has sufficient time to negotiate and enter into a purchase or lease agreement for the property; and (3) Subject to reasonable safeguards, the person is assured of receiving the relocation assistance and acquisition payment to which the person is entitled in sufficient time to complete the purchase or lease of the property. (b) Circumstances permitting waiver. The Federal agency funding the project may grant a waiver of the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section in any case where it is demonstrated that a person must move because of: (1) A major disaster as defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5122); (2) A presidentially declared national emergency; or (3) Another emergency which requires immediate vacation of the real property, such as when continued occupancy of the displacement dwelling constitutes a substantial danger to the health or safety of the occupants or the public. (c) Basic conditions of emergency move. Whenever a person to be displaced is required to move from the displacement dwelling for a temporary period because of an emergency as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the agency shall: (1) Take whatever steps are necessary to assure that the person who is required to move from their dwelling is relocated to a DSS dwelling; (2) Pay the actual reasonable out-of-pocket moving expenses and any reasonable increase in rent and utility costs incurred in connection with the emergency move; and (3) Make available to the displaced person as soon as feasible, at least one comparable replacement dwelling. (For purposes of filing a claim and meeting the eligibility requirements for a relocation payment; the date of displacement is the date the person moves from their dwelling due to the emergency.) &#xA7; 24.205 Relocation planning, advisory services, and coordination. (a) Relocation planning. During the early stages of development, an agency shall plan Federal and federally assisted programs or projects in such a manner that recognizes the problems associated with the displacement of individuals, families, businesses, farms, and nonprofit organizations and develop solutions to minimize the adverse impacts of displacement. Such planning, where appropriate, shall precede any action by an agency which will cause displacement, and should be scoped to the complexity and nature of the anticipated displacing activity including an evaluation of program resources available to carry out timely and orderly relocations. Planning may involve a relocation survey or study, which may include the following: (1) An estimate of the number of households to be displaced including information such as owner/tenant status, estimated value and rental rates of properties to be acquired, family characteristics, and special consideration of the impacts on minorities, the elderly, large families, and persons with disabilities when applicable. (2) An estimate of the number of comparable replacement dwellings in the area (including price ranges and rental rates) that are expected to be available to fulfill the needs of those households permanently or temporarily displaced. When an adequate supply of comparable housing is not expected to be available, the agency should consider housing of last resort actions. (3) An estimate of the number, type, and size of the businesses, farms, and nonprofit organizations to be displaced and the approximate number of employees that may be affected. (4) An estimate of the availability of replacement business sites. When an adequate supply of replacement business sites is not expected to be available, the impacts of displacing or temporarily moving the businesses should be considered and addressed. Planning for permanently and temporarily displaced businesses which are reasonably expected to involve complex or lengthy moving processes or small businesses with limited financial resources and/or few alternative relocation sites should include an analysis of business moving problems. (5) Consideration of any special relocation advisory services that may be necessary from the agency displacing a person and other cooperating agencies. (b) Loans for planning and preliminary expenses. In the event that an agency elects to consider using the duplicative provision in section 4635 of the Uniform Act which permits the use of project funds for loans to cover planning and other preliminary expenses for the development of additional housing, the Lead Agency will establish criteria and procedures for such use upon the request of the Federal Agency funding the program or project. (c) Relocation assistance advisory services -(1) General. The agency shall carry out a relocation assistance advisory program which satisfies the requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq. ), title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq., as amended. ), and Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 652), and offer the services described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. If the agency determines that a person occupying property adjacent to the real property acquired for the project is caused substantial economic injury because of such acquisition, it may offer advisory services to such person. (2) Services to be provided. The advisory program shall include such measures, facilities, and services as may be necessary or appropriate in order to: (i) Determine, for nonresidential (businesses, farm, and nonprofit organizations) displacements, the relocation needs and preferences of each business (farm and nonprofit organization) to be displaced or, when determined to be necessary by the funding agency, temporarily displaced and explain the relocation payments and other assistance for which the business may be eligible, the related eligibility requirements, and the procedures for obtaining such assistance. This shall include a personal interview with each business. At a minimum, interviews with displaced business owners and operators should include the following items: (A) The business's replacement site requirements, current lease terms and other contractual obligations and the financial capacity of the business to accomplish the move. (B) Determination of the need for outside specialists in accordance with &#xA7; 24.301(g)(13) that will be required to assist in planning the move, assistance in the actual move, and in the reinstallation of machinery and/or other personal property. (C) For businesses, an identification and resolution of personalty and/or realty issues. Every effort must be made to identify and resolve personalty and/or realty issues prior to, or at the time of, the appraisal of the property. (D) An estimate of the time required for the business to vacate the site. (E) An estimate of the anticipated difficulty in locating a replacement property. (F) An identification of any advance relocation payments required for the move, and the agency's legal capacity to provide them. (ii) Determine, for residential displacements, the relocation needs and preferences of each person to be displaced, or temporarily displaced when the funding agency determines it to be necessary, and explain the relocation payments and other assistance for which the person may be eligible, the related eligibility requirements, and the procedures for obtaining such assistance. This shall include a personal interview with each residential displaced person and, when the funding agency determines it to be necessary, each temporarily displaced person. (A) Provide current and continuing information on the availability, purchase prices, and rental costs of comparable replacement dwellings, and explain that the person cannot be required to move unless at least one comparable replacement dwelling is made available as set forth in &#xA7; 24.204(a). (B) As soon as feasible, the agency shall inform the person in writing of the specific comparable replacement dwelling and the price or rent used for establishing the upper limit of the replacement housing payment ( see &#xA7; 24.403(a) and (b)) and the basis for the determination, so that the person is aware of the maximum replacement housing payment for which he or she may qualify. (C) Where feasible, comparable housing shall be inspected prior to being made available to assure that it meets applicable standards ( see &#xA7; 24.2(a).) If such an inspection is not made, the agency shall notify the person to be displaced in writing of the reason that an inspection of the comparable was not made and, that if the comparable is purchased or rented by the displaced person, a replacement housing payment may not be made unless the replacement dwelling is subsequently inspected and determined to be decent, safe, and sanitary. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.205(c)(2)(ii)(C).) (D) Whenever possible, minority persons, including those temporarily displaced, shall be given reasonable opportunities to relocate to decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings, not located in an area of minority concentration, that are within their financial means. This does not require an agency to provide a person a larger payment than is necessary to enable a person to relocate to a comparable replacement dwelling. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.205(c)(2)(ii)(D).) (E) The agency shall offer all persons transportation to inspect housing to which they are referred. (F) Any displaced person that may be eligible for Government housing assistance at the replacement dwelling shall be advised of any requirements of such Government housing assistance program that would limit the size of the replacement dwelling ( see &#xA7; 24.2(a)), as well as of the long-term nature of such rent subsidy, and the limited (42 month) duration of the relocation rental assistance payment. (iii) Provide, for nonresidential moves, current and continuing information on the availability, purchase prices, and rental costs of suitable commercial and farm properties and locations. Assist any person displaced from a business or farm operation to obtain and become established in a suitable replacement location. (iv) Minimize hardships to persons in adjusting to relocation by providing counseling, advice as to other sources of assistance that may be available, and such other help as may be appropriate. (v) Supply persons to be displaced with appropriate information concerning Federal and State housing programs, disaster loan and other programs administered by the Small Business Administration, and other Federal and State programs offering assistance to displaced persons, and technical help to persons applying for such assistance. (d) Coordination of relocation activities. Relocation activities shall be coordinated with project work and other displacement-causing activities to ensure that, to the extent feasible, persons displaced receive consistent treatment and the duplication of functions is minimized. ( See &#xA7; 24.6.) (e) Subsequent occupants. Any person who occupies property acquired by an agency, when such occupancy began subsequent to the acquisition of the property, and the occupancy is permitted by a short-term rental agreement or an agreement subject to termination when the property is needed for a program or project, shall be eligible for advisory services, as determined by the agency. &#xA7; 24.206 Eviction for cause. (a) Eviction for cause must conform to applicable Federal, State, and local law. Any person who occupies the real property and is in lawful occupancy on the date of the initiation of negotiations is presumed to be entitled to relocation payments and other assistance set forth in this part unless the agency determines that: (1) The person received an eviction notice prior to the initiation of negotiations and as a result of that notice is later evicted; or (2) The person is evicted after the initiation of negotiations for serious or repeated violation of material terms of the lease or occupancy agreement; and (3) In either case the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to make available the payments and other assistance set forth in this part. (b) For purposes of determining eligibility for relocation payments, the date of displacement is the date the person moves, or if later, the date a comparable replacement dwelling is made available. This section applies only to persons who would otherwise have been displaced by the project. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.206.) &#xA7; 24.207 General requirements-claims for relocation payments. (a) Documentation. Any claim for a relocation payment shall be supported by such documentation as may be reasonably required to support expenses incurred, such as bills, certified prices, appraisals, or other evidence of such expenses. A displaced person or person required to move temporarily must be provided reasonable assistance necessary to complete and file any required claim for payment. (b) Expeditious payments. The agency shall review claims in an expeditious manner. The claimant shall be promptly notified as to any additional documentation that is required to support the claim. Payment for a claim shall be made as soon as feasible following receipt of sufficient documentation to support the claim. (c) Advanced payments. If a person demonstrates the need for an advanced relocation payment in order to avoid or reduce a hardship, the agency shall issue the payment, subject to such safeguards as are appropriate to ensure that the objective of the payment is accomplished. (d) Time for filing. (1) All claims for a relocation payment shall be filed with the agency no later than 18 months after: (i) For tenants, the date of displacement or temporary move. (ii) For owners, the date of displacement or the date of the final payment for the acquisition of the real property, whichever is later. (2) The agency shall waive this time period for good cause. (e) Notice of denial of claim. If the agency disapproves all or part of a payment claimed or refuses to consider the claim on its merits because of untimely filing or other grounds, it shall promptly notify the claimant in writing of its determination, the basis for its determination, and the procedures for appealing that determination. (f) No waiver of relocation assistance. An agency shall not propose or request that a person waive his or her rights or entitlements to relocation assistance and benefits provided by the Uniform Act and this part. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.207(f).) (g) Expenditure of payments. Payments, provided pursuant to this part, shall not be considered to constitute Federal financial assistance. Accordingly, this part does not apply to the expenditure of such payments by, or for, a displaced person. (h) Deductions from relocation payments. An agency shall deduct the amount of any advance relocation payment from the relocation payment(s) to which a person is otherwise entitled. The agency shall not withhold any part of a relocation payment to a person to satisfy any other obligation. &#xA7; 24.208 Aliens not lawfully present in the United States. (a) Each person seeking relocation payments or relocation advisory assistance shall, as a condition of eligibility, certify: (1) In the case of an individual, that they are a citizen, or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States. (2) In the case of a family, that each family member is a citizen or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States. The certification may be made by the head of the household on behalf of other family members. (3) In the case of an unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization, that each owner is a citizen or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States. The certification may be made by the principal owner, manager, or operating officer on behalf of other persons with an ownership interest. (4) In the case of an incorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization, that the corporation is authorized to conduct business within the United States. (b) The certification provided pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section shall specify the person's status as a citizen or an alien who is lawfully present in the United States. Requirements concerning the certification in addition to those contained in this section shall be within the discretion of the Federal funding agency and, within those parameters, that of the agency carrying out such displacements. (c) In computing relocation payments under the Uniform Act, if any member(s) of a household or owner(s) of an unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization is (are) determined to be ineligible because of a failure to be lawfully present in the United States, no relocation payments may be made to him or her. Any payment(s) for which such household, unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization would otherwise be eligible shall be computed for the household, based on the number of eligible household members and for the unincorporated business, farm, or nonprofit organization, based on the ratio of ownership between eligible and ineligible owners. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.208(c).) (d) The agency shall consider the certification provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to be valid, unless the agency determines in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section that it is invalid based on a review of documentation or other information that the agency considers reliable and appropriate. (e) Any review by the agency of the certifications provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be conducted in a nondiscriminatory fashion. Each agency will apply the same standard of review to all such certifications it receives, except that such standard may be revised periodically. (f) If, based on a review of a person's documentation or other credible evidence, an agency has reason to believe that a person's certification is invalid (for example a document reviewed does not on its face reasonably appear to be genuine), and that, as a result, such person may be an alien not lawfully present in the United States, it shall obtain the following information before making a final determination: (1) For a person who has certified that they are an alien lawfully present in the United States, the agency shall obtain verification of the person's status by using the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) program administered by USCIS to verify immigration status. (2) For a person who has certified that they are a citizen or national, if the agency has reason to believe that the certification is invalid, the agency shall request evidence of United States citizenship or nationality and, if considered necessary, verify the accuracy of such evidence with the issuer or other appropriate source. (g) No relocation payments or relocation advisory assistance shall be provided to a person who has not provided the certification described in this section or who has been determined to be not lawfully present in the United States, unless such person can demonstrate to the agency's satisfaction that the denial of relocation assistance will result in an exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to such person's spouse, parent, or child who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States. (h) For purposes of paragraph (g) of this section, &#x201C;exceptional and extremely unusual hardship&#x201D; to such spouse, parent, or child of the person not lawfully present in the United States means that the denial of relocation payments and advisory assistance to such person will directly result in ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.208(h)): (1) A significant and demonstrable adverse impact on the health or safety of such spouse, parent, or child; (2) A significant and demonstrable adverse impact on the continued existence of the family unit of which such spouse, parent, or child is a member; or (3) Any other impact that the agency determines will have a significant and demonstrable adverse impact on such spouse, parent, or child. (i) The certification referred to in paragraph (a) of this section may be included as part of the claim for relocation payments described in &#xA7; 24.207. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2105-0508.) &#xA7; 24.209 Relocation payments not considered as income. No relocation payment received by a displaced person or person required to move temporarily under this part shall be considered as income for the purpose of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, which has been redesignated as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (title 26, U.S.C.), or for the purpose of determining the eligibility or the extent of eligibility of any person for assistance under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq. ) or any other Federal law, except for any Federal law providing low-income housing assistance. Subpart D-Payments for Moving and Related Expenses &#xA7; 24.301 Payment for actual reasonable moving and related expenses. (a) General. (1) Any owner-occupant or tenant who qualifies as a displaced person (defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a)) and who moves from a dwelling (including a mobile home) or who moves from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization is entitled to payment of his or her actual moving and related expenses, as the agency determines to be reasonable and necessary. (2) A non-occupant owner of a rented mobile home is eligible for actual cost reimbursement under this section to relocate the mobile home. If the mobile home is not acquired as real estate, but the homeowner-occupant obtains a replacement housing payment under one of the circumstances described at &#xA7; 24.502(a)(3), the homeowner-occupant is not eligible for payment for moving the mobile home but may be eligible for a payment for moving personal property from the mobile home. (b) Moves from a dwelling. A displaced person's actual, reasonable, and necessary moving expenses for moving personal property from a dwelling may be determined based on the cost of one, or a combination of the methods in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section (eligible expenses for moves from a dwelling include the expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section): (1) Commercial move. Moves performed by a professional mover. (2) Self-move. Moves that may be performed by the displaced person in one or a combination of the following methods: (i) Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule. The Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule described in &#xA7; 24.302. (ii) Actual cost move. Supported by receipted bills for labor and equipment. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff necessary for moving the residential personal property. Costs for moving personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly market rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover. (iii) A moving cost estimate. Prepared by a qualified agency staff person, as developed from the agency's thorough review of the personal property to be moved and documented costs for materials, equipment, and labor. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff. Costs for moving residential personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover. The cost of materials should equal those readily available locally. (iv) Commercial mover estimate. Based on the lower of two bids from a commercial mover. Federal funding agencies may establish policies and procedures which require its grantees to calculate and subtract an estimated amount of overhead and profit from the moving cost bids to establish a reimbursement eligibility. (c) Moves from a mobile home. Eligible expenses for moves from a mobile home include those expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section. In addition to the items in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner-occupant of a mobile home that is moved as personal property and used as the person's replacement dwelling, is also eligible for the moving expenses described in paragraphs (g)(8) through (10) of this section. A displaced person's actual, reasonable, and necessary moving expenses for moving personal property from a mobile home may be determined based on the cost of one, or a combination of the following methods: (1) Commercial move. Moves performed by a professional mover. (2) Self-move. Moves that may be performed by the displaced person in one or a combination of the following methods: (i) Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule. The Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule described in &#xA7; 24.302. (ii) Actual cost move. Supported by receipted bills for labor and equipment. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff necessary for moving the residential personal property. Costs for moving personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly market rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover. (iii) A moving cost estimate. Prepared by a qualified agency staff person, as developed from the agency's thorough review of the personal property to be moved, and documented estimated costs for materials, equipment, and labor. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff. Costs for moving residential personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover. The cost of materials should equal those readily available locally. (iv) Commercial mover estimate. Based on the lower of two bids from a commercial mover. Federal funding agencies may establish policies and procedures which require its grantees to calculate and subtract an estimated amount of overhead and profit from the moving cost bids to establish a reimbursement eligibility. (d) Moves from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization. Eligible expenses for moves from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization include those expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) and (11) through (18) of this section and &#xA7; 24.303. Personal property as determined by an inventory from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization may be moved by one or a combination of the following methods: (1) Commercial move. Based on the lower of two bids or estimates prepared by a commercial mover. At the agency's discretion, payment for a low cost or uncomplicated move may be based on a single bid or estimate. (2) Self-move. A self-move payment may be based on one or a combination of the following: (i) The lower of two bids or estimates prepared by a commercial mover or qualified agency staff person. At the agency's discretion, payment for a low cost or uncomplicated move may be based on a single bid or estimate; or (ii) Supported by receipted bills for labor and equipment. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the rates paid by a commercial mover to employees performing the same activity and, equipment rental fees should be based on the actual rental cost of the equipment but not to exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover. (iii) A qualified agency staff person may develop a move cost finding by estimating and determining the cost of a small uncomplicated nonresidential personal property move of $5,000 or less, with the written consent of the person. This estimate may include only the cost of moving personal property which does not require disconnect and reconnect and/or specialty moving services necessary for activities including crating, lifting, transportation, and setting of the item in place. (e) Personal property only. Eligible expenses for a person who is required to move personal property from real property but is not required to move from a dwelling (including a mobile home), business, farm, or nonprofit organization include those expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) and (18) of this section. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.301(e).) (f) Advertising signs. The amount of a payment for direct loss of an advertising sign, which is personal property shall be the lesser of: (1) The depreciated reproduction cost of the sign, as determined by the agency, less the proceeds from its sale; or (2) The estimated cost of moving the sign, but with no allowance for storage. (g) Eligible actual moving expenses. (1) Transportation of the displaced person and personal property. Transportation costs for a distance beyond 50 miles are not eligible, unless the agency determines that relocation beyond 50 miles is justified. (2) Packing, crating, unpacking, and uncrating of the personal property. (3) Disconnecting, dismantling, removing, reassembling, and reinstalling relocated household appliances and other personal property. For businesses, farms, or nonprofit organizations this includes machinery, equipment, substitute personal property, and connections to utilities available within the building; it also includes modifications to the personal property, including those mandated by Federal, State, or local law, code, or ordinance, necessary to adapt it to the replacement structure, the replacement site, or the utilities at the replacement site, and modifications necessary to adapt the utilities at the replacement site to the personal property. (4) An agency may determine that the storage of personal property is a reasonable and necessary moving expense for a displaced person or person required to move temporarily under this part. Agencies may approve a payment for storage when the process of relocating from the acquired site to the replacement site is delayed for reasons beyond the control of the displaced person. Storage may not be longer than 12 months, starting at the date of vacation from the acquired site and ending when the replacement site becomes available. Agencies may approve storage for more than 12 months in unusual instances as justified, documented, and approved by the agency. (5) Insurance for the replacement value of the property in connection with the move and necessary storage. (6) The replacement value of property lost, stolen, or damaged in the process of moving (not through the fault or negligence of the displaced person, his or her agent, or employee) where insurance covering such loss, theft, or damage is not reasonably available. (7) A displaced tenant is entitled to reasonable reimbursement, as determined by the agency, for actual expenses not to exceed $1,000, incurred for rental replacement dwelling application fees or credit reports required to lease a replacement dwelling. (8) Other moving-related expenses that are not listed as ineligible under paragraph (h) of this section, as the agency determines to be reasonable and necessary. (9) The reasonable cost of disassembling, moving, and reassembling any appurtenances attached to a mobile home, such as porches, decks, skirting, and awnings, which were not acquired, anchoring of the unit, and utility &#x201C;hookup&#x201D; charges. (10) The reasonable cost of repairs and/or modifications so that a mobile home can be moved and/or made decent, safe, and sanitary. (11) The cost of a nonrefundable mobile home park entrance fee, to the extent it does not exceed the fee at a comparable mobile home park, if the person is displaced or temporarily moved from a mobile home park or the agency determines that payment of the fee is necessary to effect relocation. (12) Any actual, reasonable, or necessary costs of a license, permit, fee, or certification required of the displaced person to operate a business, farm, or nonprofit at the replacement location. However, the payment may be based on the remaining useful life of the existing license, permit, fees, or certification. (13) Professional services as the agency determines to be actual, reasonable, and necessary for: (i) Planning the move of the personal property; (ii) Moving the personal property; and (iii) Installing the relocated personal property at the replacement location. (14) Relettering signs, replacing stationery on hand at the time of displacement or temporary move, and making reasonable and necessary updates to other media that are made obsolete as a result of the move. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.301(g)(14).) (15) Actual direct loss of tangible personal property incurred as a result of moving or discontinuing the business or farm operation. The payment shall consist of: (i) If the item is currently in use, the lesser of: (A) The estimated cost to move the item up to 50 miles and reinstall; or (B) The fair market value in place of the item, as is for continued use, less the proceeds from its sale. To be eligible for payment, the claimant must make a good faith effort to sell the personal property, unless the agency determines that such effort is not necessary. (ii) If the item is not currently in use: The estimated cost of moving the item 50 miles, as is. (iii) When payment for property loss is claimed for goods held for sale, the fair market value shall be based on the cost of the goods to the business, not the potential selling prices. ( See appendix A of this part, section 24.301(g)(15).) (16) The reasonable cost incurred in attempting to sell an item that is not to be relocated. (17) If an item of personal property, which is used as part of a business or farm operation is not moved but is promptly replaced with a substitute item that performs a comparable function at the replacement site, the displaced person is entitled to payment of the lesser of: (i) The cost of the substitute item, including installation costs of the replacement site, minus any proceeds from the sale or trade-in of the replaced item; or (ii) The estimated cost of moving and reinstalling the replaced item but with no allowance for storage. At the agency's discretion, the estimated cost for a low cost or uncomplicated move may be based on a single bid or estimate. (18) Searching for a replacement location. (i) A business or farm operation is entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses, not to exceed $5,000, as the agency determines to be reasonable, which are incurred in searching for a replacement location, including: (A) Transportation; (B) Meals and lodging away from home; (C) Time spent searching, based on reasonable salary or earnings; (D) Fees paid to a real estate agent or broker to locate a replacement site, exclusive of any fees or commissions related to the purchase of such sites; (E) Time spent in obtaining permits and attending zoning hearings; and (F) Expenses negotiating the purchase of a replacement site based on a reasonable salary or fee, including actual, reasonable, and necessary attorney's fees. (ii) The Federal funding agency may, on a program wide or project basis, allow a one-time payment of $1,000 for search expenses with minimal or no documentation as an alternative payment method to paragraph (g)(18)(i) of this section. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.301(g)(18).) (19) When the personal property to be moved is of low value and high bulk, and the cost of moving the property would be disproportionate to its value in the judgment of the agency, the allowable moving cost payment shall not exceed the lesser of: the amount which would be received if the property were sold at the site; or the replacement cost of a comparable quantity delivered to the new business location. Examples of personal property covered by this paragraph (g)(19) include, but are not limited to, stockpiled sand, gravel, minerals, metals, and other similar items of personal property as determined by the agency. (h) Ineligible moving and related expenses. The following is a nonexclusive listing of payments a displaced person is not entitled to: (1) The cost of moving any structure or other real property improvement in which the displaced person reserved ownership. (However, this part does not preclude the computation under &#xA7; 24.401(c)(2)(iii)); (2) Interest on a loan to cover moving expenses; (3) Loss of goodwill; (4) Loss of profits; (5) Loss of trained employees; (6) Any additional operating expenses of a business or farm operation incurred because of operating in a new location except as provided in &#xA7; 24.304(a)(6); (7) Personal injury; (8) Any legal fee or other cost for preparing a claim for a relocation payment or for representing the claimant before the agency; (9) Expenses for searching for a temporary or replacement dwelling which include costs for mileage, meals, lodging, time and professional real estate broker or attorney's fees; (10) Physical changes to the real property at the temporary or replacement location of a business or farm operation except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section and &#xA7; 24.304(a); (11) Costs for storage of personal property on real property already owned or leased by the displaced person or person to be moved temporarily; (12) Refundable security and utility deposits; and (13) Cosmetic changes to a replacement or temporary dwelling, which are not required by State or local law, such as painting, draperies, or replacement carpet or flooring. (i) Notification and inspection (nonresidential). The agency shall inform the displaced person and persons required to move temporarily, in writing, of the requirements of this section as soon as possible after the initiation of negotiations. This information may be included in the relocation information provided the person as set forth in &#xA7; 24.203. To be eligible for payments under this section the person must: (1) Provide the agency reasonable advance notice of the approximate date of the start of the move or disposition of the personal property and an inventory of the items to be moved. However, the agency may waive this notice requirement after documenting its file accordingly. (2) Permit the agency to make reasonable and timely inspections of the personal property at both the displacement and replacement sites and to monitor the move. (j) Transfer of ownership (nonresidential). Upon request and in accordance with applicable law, the claimant shall transfer to the agency ownership of any personal property that has not been moved, sold, or traded in. &#xA7; 24.302 Fixed payment for moving expenses-residential moves. Any person displaced from a dwelling or a seasonal residence or a dormitory style room is entitled to receive a fixed moving cost payment as an alternative to a payment for actual moving and related expenses under &#xA7; 24.301. This payment shall be determined according to the Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule approved by FHWA and published in the Federal Register on a periodic basis. The payment to a person with minimal personal possessions who is in occupancy of a dormitory style room or a person whose residential move is performed by an agency at no cost to the person shall be limited to the amount stated in the most recent edition of the Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule. In addition, an agency may approve storage for a displaced person's personal property for a period of up 12 months as a reasonable, actual and necessary moving expense under &#xA7; 24.301(g)(4). (a) An agency may determine that the storage of personal property is a reasonable and necessary moving expense for a displaced person under this part. The determination shall be based on the needs of the displaced person; the nature of the move; the plans for permanent relocation; the amount of time available for the relocation process; and, whether storage will facilitate relocation. If the agency determines that storage is reasonable and necessary in conjunction with a fixed cost moving payment made under this section, the agency shall pay the actual, reasonable, and necessary storage expenses in accordance with &#xA7; 24.301(g)(4). However, regardless of whether storage is approved, the Fixed Residential Move Cost Schedule provides a one-time payment for one move from the displacement dwelling to the replacement dwelling, or storage facility. Consequently, displaced persons must be fully informed that reimbursement of costs to move the personal property to storage and the cost of approved storage, if applicable, represent a full reimbursement of their eligibility for moving costs under this part. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.302.) (b) [Reserved] (c) The Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule is available at the following URL: www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/uniform_act/relocation/moving_cost_schedule.cfm. &#xA7; 24.303 Related nonresidential eligible expenses. The following expenses, in addition to those provided by &#xA7; 24.301 for moving personal property, shall be provided if the agency determines that they are actual, reasonable, and necessary: (a) Connection to available utilities from the replacement site's property line to improvements at the replacement site. ( See appendix A to this part, Section 24.303(a). ) (b) Professional services performed prior to the purchase or lease of a replacement site to determine its suitability for the displaced person's business operation including, but not limited to, soil testing or feasibility and marketing studies (excluding any fees or commissions directly related to the purchase or lease of such site). At the discretion of the agency a reasonable pre-approved hourly rate may be established. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.303(b).) (c) Impact fees and one-time assessments for anticipated heavy utility usage, as determined necessary by the agency. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.303(c).) &#xA7; 24.304 Reestablishment expenses-nonresidential moves. In addition to the payments available under &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.301 and 24.303, a small business, farm, or nonprofit organization is entitled to receive a payment, not to exceed $33,200, for expenses actually incurred in relocating and reestablishing such small business, farm, or nonprofit organization at a replacement site. (a) Eligible expenses. Reestablishment expenses must be reasonable and necessary, as determined by the agency. They include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Repairs or improvements to the replacement real property as required by Federal, State, or local law, code, or ordinance. (2) Modifications to the replacement property to accommodate the business operation or make replacement structures suitable for conducting the business. (3) Construction and installation costs for exterior signing to advertise the business. (4) Redecoration or replacement of soiled or worn surfaces at the replacement site, such as paint, paneling, or carpeting. (5) Advertisement of replacement location. (6) Estimated increased costs of operation during the first 2 years at the replacement site for such items as: (i) Lease or rental charges; (ii) Personal or real property taxes; (iii) Insurance premiums; and (iv) Utility charges, excluding impact fees. (7) Other items that the agency considers essential to the reestablishment of the business. (b) Ineligible expenses. The following is a nonexclusive listing of reestablishment expenditures not considered to be reasonable, necessary, or otherwise eligible: (1) Purchase of capital assets, such as office furniture, filing cabinets, machinery, or trade fixtures. (2) Purchase of manufacturing materials, production supplies, product inventory, or other items used in the normal course of the business operation. (3) Interest on money borrowed to make the move or purchase the replacement property. (4) Payment to a part-time business in the home which does not contribute materially, defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a), to the household income. (5) Construction costs for a new building at the business replacement site, or costs to construct, reconstruct or rehabilitate an existing building. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.304(b)(5).) &#xA7; 24.305 Fixed payment for moving expenses-nonresidential moves. (a) Business. A displaced business may be eligible to choose a fixed payment in lieu of the payments for both actual moving and related expenses, as well as actual reasonable reestablishment expenses provided by &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.301, 24.303, and 24.304. Such fixed payment, except for payment to a nonprofit organization, shall equal the average annual net earnings of the business, as computed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, but not less than $1,000 nor more than $53,200. The displaced business is eligible for the payment if the agency determines that: (1) The business owns or rents personal property which must be moved in connection with such displacement and for which an expense would be incurred in such move and the business vacates or relocates from its displacement site; (2) The business cannot be relocated without a substantial loss of its existing patronage (clientele or net earnings). A business is assumed to meet this test unless the agency determines that it will not suffer a substantial loss of its existing patronage; (3) The business is not part of a commercial enterprise having more than three other entities which are not being acquired by the agency, and which are under the same ownership and engaged in the same or similar business activities; (4) The business is not operated at a displacement dwelling solely for the purpose of renting such dwelling to others; (5) The business is not operated at the displacement site solely for the purpose of renting the site to others; and (6) The business contributed materially to the income of the displaced person during the 2 taxable years prior to displacement. ( See &#xA7; 24.2(a).) (b) Determining the number of businesses. In determining whether two or more displaced legal entities constitute a single business, which is entitled to only one fixed payment, all pertinent factors shall be considered, including the extent to which: (1) The same premises and equipment are shared; (2) Substantially identical or interrelated business functions are carried out and business and financial affairs are commingled; (3) The entities are held out to the public, and to those customarily dealing with them, as one business; and (4) The same person or closely related persons own, control, or manage the affairs of the entities. (c) Farm operation. A displaced farm operation (defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a)) may choose a fixed payment, in lieu of the payments for both actual moving as well as related expenses and actual reasonable reestablishment expenses, in an amount equal to its average annual net earnings as computed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, but not less than $1,000 nor more than $53,200. In the case of a partial acquisition of land, which was a farm operation before the acquisition, the fixed payment shall be made only if the agency determines that: (1) The acquisition of part of the land caused the operator to be displaced from the farm operation on the remaining land; or (2) The partial acquisition caused a substantial change in the nature of the farm operation. (d) Nonprofit organization. A displaced nonprofit organization may choose a fixed payment of $1,000 to $53,200, in lieu of the payments for both actual moving as well as related expenses and actual reasonable reestablishment expenses, if the agency determines that it cannot be relocated without a substantial loss of existing patronage (membership or clientele). A nonprofit organization is assumed to meet this test unless the agency demonstrates otherwise. Any payment in excess of $1,000 must be supported with financial statements for the two 12-month periods prior to the acquisition. The amount to be used for the payment is the average of 2 years annual gross revenues less administrative expenses. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.305(d).) (e) Average annual net earnings of a business or farm operation. The average annual net earnings of a business or farm operation are one-half of its net earnings before Federal, State, and local income taxes during the 2 taxable years immediately prior to the taxable year in which it was displaced. If the business or farm was not in operation for the full 2 taxable years prior to displacement, net earnings shall be based on the actual period of operation at the displacement site during the 2 taxable years prior to displacement, projected to an annual rate ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.305(e), for sample calculations). Average annual net earnings may be based upon a different period of time when the agency determines it to be more equitable. Net earnings include any compensation obtained from the business or farm operation by its owner, the owner's spouse, and dependents. The displaced person shall furnish the agency proof of net earnings through income tax returns, certified financial statements, or other reasonable evidence, which the agency determines is satisfactory. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.305(e).) &#xA7; 24.306 Discretionary utility relocation payments. (a) Whenever a program or project undertaken by an agency causes the relocation of a utility facility (defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a)) and the relocation of the facility creates extraordinary expenses for its owner, the agency may, at its option, make a relocation payment to the owner for all or part of such expenses, if the following criteria are met: (1) The utility facility legally occupies State or local government property, or property over which the State or local government has an easement or right-of-way; (2) The utility facility's right of occupancy thereon is pursuant to State law or local ordinance specifically authorizing such use, or where such use and occupancy has been granted through a franchise, use and occupancy permit, or other similar agreement; (3) Relocation of the utility facility is required by and is incidental to the primary purpose of the project or program undertaken by the agency; (4) There is no Federal law, other than the Uniform Act, which clearly establishes a requirement for the payment of utility moving costs that is applicable to the agency's program or project; and (5) State or local government reimbursement for utility moving costs or payment of such costs by the agency is in accordance with State law. (b) For the purposes of this section, the term extraordinary expenses mean those expenses which, in the opinion of the agency, are not routine or predictable expenses relating to the utility's occupancy of rights-of-way, and are not ordinarily budgeted as operating expenses, unless the owner of the utility facility has explicitly and knowingly agreed to bear such expenses as a condition for use of the property or has voluntarily agreed to be responsible for such expenses. (c) A relocation payment to a utility facility owner for moving costs under this section may not exceed the cost to functionally restore the service disrupted by the federally assisted program or project, less any increase in value of the new facility and salvage value of the old facility. The agency and the utility facility owner shall reach prior agreement on the nature of the utility relocation work to be accomplished, the eligibility of the work for reimbursement, the responsibilities for financing and accomplishing the work, and the method of accumulating costs and making payment. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.306.) Subpart E-Replacement Housing Payments &#xA7; 24.401 Replacement housing payment for 90-day homeowner-occupants. (a) Eligibility. A displaced person is eligible for the replacement housing payment for a 90-day homeowner-occupant if the person: (1) Has actually owned and occupied the displacement dwelling for not less than 90 days immediately prior to the initiation of negotiations; and (2) Purchases and occupies a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling within 1 year after the later of the following dates (except that the agency may extend such 1 year period for good cause): (i) The date the displaced person receives final payment for the displacement dwelling or, in the case of condemnation, the date the full amount of the estimate of just compensation is deposited in the court; or (ii) The date the agency's obligation under &#xA7; 24.204 is met. (b) Amount of payment. The replacement housing payment for an eligible 90-day homeowner-occupant may not exceed $41,200 ( see also &#xA7; 24.404). The payment under this subpart is limited to the amount necessary to relocate to a comparable replacement dwelling within 1 year from the date the displaced homeowner-occupant is paid for the displacement dwelling, or the date a comparable replacement dwelling is made available to such person, whichever is later. The payment shall be the sum of: (1) The amount by which the cost of a replacement dwelling exceeds the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; (2) The increased interest costs and other debt service costs which are incurred in connection with the mortgage(s) on the replacement dwelling, as determined in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, as applicable; and (3) The reasonable expenses incidental to the purchase of the replacement dwelling, as determined in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. (c) Price differential -(1) Basic computation. The price differential to be paid under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the amount which must be added to the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling and site ( see &#xA7; 24.2(a)) to provide a total amount equal to the lesser of: (i) The reasonable cost of a comparable replacement dwelling as determined in accordance with &#xA7; 24.403(a); or (ii) The purchase price of the DSS replacement dwelling actually purchased and occupied by the displaced person. (2) Owner retention of displacement dwelling. If the owner retains ownership of his or her dwelling, moves it from the displacement site, and reoccupies it on a replacement site, the purchase price of the replacement dwelling shall be the sum of: (i) The cost of moving and restoring the dwelling to a condition comparable to that prior to the move; (ii) The cost of making the unit a DSS replacement dwelling ( see &#xA7; 24.2(a)); (iii) The current fair market value for residential use of the replacement dwelling site ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.401(c)(2)(iii)), unless the claimant rented the displacement site and there is a reasonable opportunity for the claimant to rent a suitable replacement site; and (iv) The retention value of the dwelling if such retention value is reflected in the &#x201C;acquisition cost&#x201D; used when computing the replacement housing payment. (d) Increased mortgage interest costs. The agency shall determine the factors to be used in computing the amount to be paid to a displaced person under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the payment for increased mortgage interest cost shall be the amount which will reduce the mortgage balance on a new mortgage to an amount which could be amortized with the same monthly payment for principal and interest as that for the mortgage(s) on the displacement dwelling. In addition, payments shall include other debt service costs, if not paid as incidental costs, and shall be based only on bona fide mortgages that were valid liens on the displacement dwelling for at least 180 days prior to the initiation of negotiations. Paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section shall apply to the computation of the increased mortgage interest costs payment, which payment shall be contingent upon a mortgage being placed on the replacement dwelling. (1) The payment shall be based on the unpaid mortgage balance(s) on the displacement dwelling; however, in the event the displaced person obtains a smaller mortgage than the mortgage balance(s) computed in the buydown determination, the payment will be prorated and reduced accordingly. (See appendix A to this part, section 24.401(d).) In the case of a home equity loan the unpaid balance shall be that balance which existed 180 days prior to the initiation of negotiations or the balance on the date of acquisition, whichever is less. (2) The payment shall be based on the remaining term of the mortgage(s) on the displacement dwelling or the term of the new mortgage, whichever is shorter. (3) The interest rate on the new mortgage used in determining the amount of the payment shall not exceed the prevailing fixed interest rate for conventional mortgages currently charged by mortgage lending institutions in the area in which the replacement dwelling is located. (4) Purchaser's points and loan origination or assumption fees, but not seller's points, shall be paid to the extent: (i) They are not paid as incidental expenses; (ii) They do not exceed rates normal to similar real estate transactions in the area; (iii) The agency determines them to be necessary; and (iv) The computation of such points and fees shall be based on the unpaid mortgage balance on the displacement dwelling, less the amount determined for the reduction of the mortgage balance under this section. (5) The displaced person shall be advised of the approximate amount of this payment and the conditions that must be met to receive the payment as soon as the facts relative to the person's current mortgage(s) are known and the payment shall be made available at or near the time of closing on the replacement dwelling in order to reduce the new mortgage as intended. (e) Reverse mortgages. The payment for replacing a reverse mortgage shall be the difference between the existing reverse mortgage balance and the minimum dollar amount necessary to purchase a replacement reverse mortgage which will provide the same or similar terms as that for the reverse mortgage on the displacement dwelling. In addition, payments shall include other debt service costs, if not paid as incidental costs, and shall be based only on reverse mortgages that were valid liens on the displacement dwelling for at least 180 days prior to the initiation of negotiations. Paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section shall apply to the computation of the mortgage interest differential payment required under paragraph (d) of this section, which payment shall be contingent upon a new reverse mortgage being purchased for the replacement dwelling. (1) The payment shall be based on the difference between the reverse mortgage balance and the minimum amount needed to qualify for a reverse mortgage with the similar terms as the reverse mortgage on the displacement dwelling; however, in the event the displaced person obtains a reverse mortgage with a smaller principal balance than the reverse mortgage balance(s) computed in the buydown determination, the payment will be prorated and reduced accordingly. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.401(e).) The reverse mortgage balance shall be that balance which existed 180 days prior to the initiation of negotiations or the reverse mortgage balance on the date of acquisition, whichever is less. (2) The interest rate on the new reverse mortgage used in determining the amount of the eligibility shall not exceed the prevailing rate for reverse mortgages currently charged by mortgage lending institutions for owners with similar amounts of equity in their units in the area in which the replacement dwelling is located. (3) Purchaser's points and loan origination, but not seller's points, shall be paid to the extent: (i) They are not paid as incidental expenses; (ii) They do not exceed rates normal to similar real estate transactions in the area; (iii) The agency determines them to be necessary; and (iv) The computation of such points and fees shall be based on the reverse mortgage balance on the displacement dwelling plus any amount necessary to purchase the new reverse mortgage. (4) The displaced person or their representative shall be advised of the approximate amount of this eligibility and the conditions that must be met to receive the reimbursement as soon as the facts relative to the person's current reverse mortgage are known; the payment shall be made available at or near the time of closing on the replacement dwelling in order to purchase the new reverse mortgage as intended. (f) Incidental expenses. The incidental expenses to be paid under paragraph (b)(3) of this section or &#xA7; 24.402(c)(1) are those necessary and reasonable costs actually incurred by the displaced person incident to the purchase of a replacement dwelling, and customarily paid by the buyer, including: (1) Legal, closing, and related costs, including those for title search, preparing conveyance instruments, notary fees, preparing surveys and plats, and recording fees. (2) Lender, FHA, or VA application and appraisal fees. (3) Loan origination or assumption fees that do not represent prepaid interest. (4) Professional home inspection, certification of structural soundness, and termite inspection. (5) Credit report. (6) Owner's and mortgagee's evidence of title, e.g., title insurance, not to exceed the costs for a comparable replacement dwelling. (7) Escrow agent's fee. (8) State revenue or documentary stamps, sales, or transfer taxes (not to exceed the costs for a comparable replacement dwelling). (9) Such other costs as the agency determines to be incidental to the purchase. (g) Rental assistance payment for 90-day homeowner. A 90-day homeowner-occupant, who could be eligible for a replacement housing payment under paragraph (a) of this section but elects to rent a replacement dwelling, is eligible for a rental assistance payment. The amount of the rental assistance payment is based on a determination of market rent for the acquired dwelling compared to a comparable rental dwelling available on the market. The difference, if any, is computed in accordance with &#xA7; 24.402(b)(1), except that the limit of $9,570 does not apply, and is disbursed in accordance with &#xA7; 24.402(b)(3). Under no circumstances would the rental assistance payment exceed the amount that could have been received under paragraph (b)(1) of this section had the 90-day homeowner elected to purchase and occupy a comparable replacement dwelling. Payments allowed under &#xA7; 24.402(c) are not applicable. &#xA7; 24.402 Replacement housing payment for 90-day tenants and certain others. (a) Eligibility. A tenant or homeowner displaced from a dwelling is entitled to a payment not to exceed $9,570 for rental assistance, as computed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, or down payment assistance, as computed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, if such displaced person: (1) Has actually and lawfully occupied the displacement dwelling for at least 90 days immediately prior to the initiation of negotiations; and (2) Has rented or purchased and occupied a DSS replacement dwelling within 1 year (unless the agency extends this period for good cause) after the date he or she moves from the displacement dwelling. (b) Rental assistance payment -(1) Amount of payment. An eligible displaced person under paragraph (a) of this section who rents a replacement dwelling is entitled to a payment not to exceed $9,570 for rental assistance. ( See &#xA7; 24.404) Such payment shall be 42 times the amount obtained by subtracting the base monthly rental for the displacement dwelling from the lesser of: (i) The monthly rent and estimated average monthly cost of utilities for a comparable replacement dwelling; or (ii) The monthly rent and estimated average monthly cost of utilities for the DSS replacement dwelling actually occupied by the displaced person. (2) Base monthly rental for displacement dwelling. The base monthly rental for the displacement dwelling is the lesser of: (i) The average monthly cost for rent and utilities at the displacement dwelling for a reasonable period prior to displacement, as determined by the agency (for an owner-occupant, use the fair market rent for the displacement dwelling; for a tenant who paid little or no rent for the displacement dwelling, use the fair market rent, unless its use would result in a hardship because of the person's income or other circumstances); (ii) Thirty (30) percent of the displaced person's average monthly gross household income if the amount is classified as &#x201C;low income&#x201D; by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in its most recently published Uniform Relocation Act Income Limits (&#x201C;Survey&#x201D;). The base monthly rental shall be established solely on the criteria in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for persons with income exceeding the Survey's &#x201C;low income&#x201D; limits, for persons refusing to provide appropriate evidence of income, and for persons who are dependents. A full-time student or resident of an institution may be assumed to be a dependent, unless the person demonstrates otherwise; or (iii) The total of the amounts designated for shelter and utilities if the displaced person is receiving a welfare assistance payment from a program that designates the amounts for shelter and utilities. Note 1 to paragraph (b)(2): The Survey's income limits are updated annually and are available on FHWA's website at https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/low_income_calculations/index.cfm. (3) Manner of disbursement. A rental assistance payment may, at the agency's discretion, be disbursed in either a lump sum or in installments. However, except as limited by &#xA7; 24.403(f), the full amount vests immediately, whether or not there is any later change in the person's income or rent, or in the condition or location of the person's replacement housing. (c) Down payment assistance payment -(1) Amount of payment. An eligible displaced person under paragraph (a) of this section who purchases a replacement dwelling is entitled to a down payment assistance payment in the amount the person would receive under paragraph (b) of this section if the person rented a comparable replacement dwelling. At the agency's discretion, a down payment assistance payment that is less than $9,570 may be increased to any amount not to exceed $9,570. However, the payment to a displaced person shall not exceed the amount the homeowner would receive under &#xA7; 24.401(b) if he or she met the 90-day occupancy requirement. If the agency elects to provide the maximum payment of $9,570 as a down payment, the agency shall apply this discretion in a uniform and consistent manner, so that eligible displaced persons in like circumstances are treated equally. A displaced person eligible to receive a payment as a 90-day owner-occupant under &#xA7; 24.401(a) is not eligible for this payment. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.402(c) for payments to less than 90-day occupants and for a discussion of those who fail to meet the 90-day occupancy requirements.) (2) Application of payment. The full amount of the replacement housing payment for down payment assistance must be applied to the purchase price of the replacement dwelling and related incidental expenses. &#xA7; 24.403 Additional rules governing replacement housing payments. (a) Determining cost of comparable replacement dwelling. The upper limit of a replacement housing payment shall be based on the cost of a comparable replacement dwelling. ( See &#xA7; 24.2(a).) (1) If available, at least three comparable replacement dwellings shall be considered and the payment computed on the basis of the dwelling most nearly representative of, and equal to or better than, the displacement dwelling. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.403(a)(1).) (2) If the site of the comparable replacement dwelling lacks a major exterior attribute of the displacement dwelling site, ( e.g., the site is significantly smaller or does not contain a swimming pool), the contributory value of such attribute as determined by the agency shall be subtracted from the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling for purposes of computing the payment. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.403(a)(2).) (3) If the acquisition of a portion of a typical residential property causes the displacement of the owner from the dwelling and the agency determines that the remainder has economic value to the owner, the agency may offer to purchase the entire property. If the owner refuses to sell the remainder to the agency, the fair market value of the remainder may be added to the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling for purposes of computing the replacement housing payment. ( See appendix A to this part, section 24.403(a)(3).) (4) To the extent feasible, comparable replacement dwellings shall be selected from the neighborhood in which the displacement dwelling was located or, if that is not possible, in nearby or similar neighborhoods where housing costs are generally the same or higher. (5) When there are multiple occupants of one displacement dwelling and if two or more occupants of the displacement dwelling move to separate replacement dwellings, each occupant is entitled to a reasonable prorated share, as determined by the agency, of any relocation payments that would have been made if the occupants moved together to a comparable replacement dwelling. However, if the agency determines that two or more occupants maintained separate households within the same dwelling, such occupants have separate entitlements to relocation payments. (6) An agency shall deduct the amount of any advance relocation payment from the relocation payment(s) to which a displaced person is otherwise entitled. The agency shall not withhold any part of a relocation payment to a displaced person to satisfy an obligation to any other creditor. (7) For mixed-use and multifamily properties, if the displacement dwelling was part of a property that contained another dwelling unit and/or space used for nonresidential purposes, and/or is located on a lot larger than typical for residential purposes, only that portion of the acquisition payment which is actually attributable to the displacement dwelling shall be considered the acquisition cost when computing the replacement housing payment. (b) Inspection of replacement dwelling. Before making a replacement housing payment or releasing the initial payment from escrow, the agency or its designated representative shall inspect the replacement dwelling and determine whether it is a DSS dwelling as defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a). (c) Purchase of replacement dwelling. A displaced person is considered to have met the requirement to purchase a replacement dwelling, if the person: (1) Purchases a dwelling; (2) Purchases and rehabilitates a substandard dwelling; (3) Relocates a dwelling which he or she owns or purchases; (4) Constructs a dwelling on a site he or she owns or purchases; (5) Contracts for the purchase or construction of a dwelling on a site provided by a builder or on a site the person owns or purchases; or (6) Currently owns a previously purchased dwelling and site, valuation of which shall be on the basis of current fair market value. (d) Occupancy requirements for displacement or replacement dwelling. No person shall be denied eligibility for a replacement housing payment solely because the person is unable to meet the occupancy requirements set forth in this part for a reason beyond his or her control, including: (1) A disaster, an emergency, or an imminent threat to the public health or welfare, as determined by the President, the Federal agency funding the project, or the agency; or (2) Another reason, such as a delay in the construction of the replacement dwelling, military duty, or hospital stay, as determined by the agency. (e) Conversion of payment. A displaced person who initially rents a replacement dwelling and receives a rental assistance payment under &#xA7; 24.402(b) is eligible to receive a payment under &#xA7; 24.401 or &#xA7; 24.402(c) if he or she meets the eligibility criteria for such payments, including purchase and occupancy within the prescribed 1-year period. Any portion of the rental assistance payment that has been disbursed shall be deducted from the payment computed under &#xA7; 24.401 or &#xA7; 24.402(c). (f) Payment after death. A replacement housing payment is personal to the displaced person and upon his or her death the undisbursed portion of any such payment shall not be paid to the heirs or assigns, except that: (1) The amount attributable to the displaced person's period of actual occupancy of the replacement housing shall be paid. (2) Any remaining payment shall be disbursed to the remaining family members of the displaced household in any case in which a member of a displaced family dies. (3) Any portion of a replacement housing payment necessary to satisfy the legal obligation of an estate in connection with the selection of a replacement dwelling by or on behalf of a deceased person shall be disbursed to the estate. (g) Insurance proceeds. To the extent necessary to avoid duplicate compensation, the amount of any insurance proceeds received by a person in connection with a loss to the displacement dwelling due to a catastrophic occurrence (fire, flood, etc.) shall be included in the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling when computing the price differential. ( See &#xA7; 24.3.) &#xA7; 24.404 Replacement housing of last resort. (a) Determination to provide replacement housing of last resort. Whenever a program or project cannot proceed on a timely basis because comparable replacement dwellings are not available within the monetary limits for owners or tenants, as specified in &#xA7; 24.401 or &#xA7; 24.402, as appropriate, the agency shall provide additional or alternative assistance under the provisions of this subpart. Any decision to provide last resort housing assistance must be adequately justified either: (1) On a case-by-case basis, for good cause, which means that appropriate consideration has been given to: (i) The availability of comparable replacement housing in the program or project area; (ii) The resources available to provide comparable replacement housing; and (iii) The individual circumstances of the displaced person; or (2) By a determination that: (i) There is little, if any, comparable replacement housing available to displaced persons within an entire program or project area; and, therefore, last resort housing assistance is necessary for the area as a whole; (ii) A program or project cannot be advanced to completion in a timely manner without last resort housing assistance; and (iii) The method selected for providing last resort housing assistance is cost effective, considering all elements, which contribute to total program or project costs. (b) Basic rights of persons to be displaced. Notwithstanding any provision of this subpart, no person shall be required to move from a displacement dwelling unless comparable replacement housing is available to such person. No person may be deprived of any rights the person may have under the Uniform Act or this part. The agency shall not require any displaced person to accept a dwelling provided by the agency under the procedures in this part (unless the agency and the displaced person have entered into a contract to do so) in lieu of any acquisition payment or any relocation payment for which the person may otherwise be eligible. (c) Methods of providing comparable replacement housing. Agencies shall have broad latitude in implementing this subpart, but implementation shall be for reasonable cost, on a case-by-case basis unless an exception to case-by-case analysis is justified for an entire project. (1) The methods of providing replacement housing of last resort include, but are not limited to: (i) A replacement housing payment in excess of the limits set forth in &#xA7; 24.401 or &#xA7; 24.402. A replacement housing payment under this section may be provided in installments or in a lump sum at the agency's discretion. (ii) Rehabilitation of and/or additions to an existing replacement dwelling. (iii) The construction of a new replacement dwelling. (iv) The provision of a direct loan, which requires regular amortization or deferred repayment. The loan may be unsecured or secured by the real property. The loan may bear interest or be interest-free. (v) The relocation and, if necessary, rehabilitation of a dwelling. (vi) The purchase of land and/or a replacement dwelling by the agency and subsequent sale or lease to, or exchange with a displaced person. (vii) The removal of barriers for persons with disabilities. (2) Under special circumstances, consistent with the definition of a comparable replacement dwelling in &#xA7; 24.2(a), modified methods of providing replacement housing of last resort permit consideration of replacement housing based on space and physical characteristics different from those in the displacement dwelling ( see appendix A to this part, section 24.404(c)), including upgraded, but smaller replacement housing that is DSS and adequate to accommodate individuals or families displaced from marginal or substandard housing with probable functional obsolescence. In no event, however, shall a displaced person be required to move into a dwelling that is not functionally equivalent in accordance with &#xA7; 24.2(a), comparable replacement housing. (3) The agency shall provide assistance under this subpart to a displaced person who is not eligible to receive a replacement housing payment under &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.401 and 24.402 because of failure to meet the length of occupancy requirement when comparable replacement rental housing is not available at rental rates within the displaced person's financial means. ( See &#xA7; 24.2(a).) Such assistance shall cover a period of 42 months. Subpart F-Mobile Homes &#xA7; 24.501 Applicability. (a) General. This subpart describes the requirements governing the provision of replacement housing payments to a person displaced from a mobile home and/or mobile home site who meets the basic eligibility requirements of this part. Except as modified by this subpart, such a displaced person is entitled to: (1) A moving expense payment in accordance with subpart D of this part; and (2) A replacement housing payment in accordance with subpart E of this part to the same extent and subject to the same requirements as persons displaced from conventional dwellings. Moving cost payments to persons occupying mobile homes are covered in &#xA7; 24.301(g)(1) through (11). (b) Partial acquisition of mobile home park. The acquisition of a portion of a mobile home park property may leave a remaining part of the property that is not adequate to continue the operation of the park. If the agency determines that a mobile home located in the remaining part of the property must be moved as a direct result of the project, the occupant of the mobile home shall be considered to be a displaced person who is entitled to relocation payments and other assistance under this part. &#xA7; 24.502 Replacement housing payment for a 90-day mobile homeowner displaced from a mobile home and/or from the acquired mobile home site. (a) Eligibility. An owner-occupant displaced from a mobile home is entitled to a replacement housing payment, not to exceed $41,200, under &#xA7; 24.401 if: (1) The person occupied the mobile home on the displacement site for at least 90 days immediately before: (i) The initiation of negotiations to acquire the mobile home, if the person owned the mobile home and the mobile home is real property; (ii) The initiation of negotiations to acquire the mobile home site if the mobile home is personal property, but the person owns the mobile home site; or (iii) The date of the agency's written notification to the owner-occupant that the owner is determined to be displaced from the mobile home as described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section; (2) The person meets the other basic eligibility requirements at &#xA7; 24.401(a)(2); and (3) The agency acquires the mobile home as real estate, or acquires the mobile home site from the displaced owner, or the mobile home is personal property, but the owner is displaced from the mobile home because the agency determines that the mobile home: (i) Is not, and cannot economically be made decent, safe, and sanitary; (ii) Cannot be relocated without substantial damage or unreasonable cost; (iii) Cannot be relocated because there is no available comparable replacement site; or (iv) Cannot be relocated because it does not meet mobile home park entrance requirements. (b) Replacement housing payment computation for a 90-day owner that is displaced from a mobile home. The replacement housing payment for an eligible displaced 90-day owner is computed as described at &#xA7; 24.401(b) incorporating the following, as applicable: (1) If the agency acquires the mobile home as real estate and/or acquires the owned site, the acquisition cost used to compute the price differential payment is the actual amount paid to the owner as just compensation for the acquisition of the mobile home, and/or site, if owned by the displaced mobile homeowner. (2) If the agency does not purchase the mobile home as real estate but the owner is determined to be displaced from the mobile home and eligible for a replacement housing payment based on paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the eligible price differential payment for the purchase of a comparable replacement mobile home, is the lesser of the displaced mobile homeowner occupant's net cost to purchase a replacement mobile home ( i.e., purchase price of the replacement mobile home less trade-in or sale proceeds of the displacement mobile home); or, the cost of the agency's selected comparable mobile home less the agency's estimate of the salvage or trade-in value for the mobile home from which the person is displaced. (3) If a comparable replacement mobile home site is not available, the price differential payment shall be computed on the basis of the reasonable cost of a conventional comparable replacement dwelling. (c) Replacement housing payment for a 90-day owner-occupant that is displaced from a leased or rented mobile home site. If the displacement mobile homeowner-occupant's site is leased or rented, a 90-day owner-occupant is entitled to a rental assistance payment computed as described in &#xA7; 24.402(b). This rental assistance replacement housing payment may be used to lease a replacement site, may be applied to the purchase price of a replacement site, or may be applied, with any replacement housing payment attributable to the mobile home, toward the purchase of a replacement mobile home and the purchase or lease of a site or the purchase of a conventional decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling. (d) Owner-occupant not displaced from the mobile home. If the agency determines that a mobile home is personal property and may be relocated to a comparable replacement site, but the owner-occupant elects not to do so, the owner is not entitled to a replacement housing payment for the purchase of a replacement mobile home. However, the owner is eligible for moving costs described at &#xA7; 24.301 and any replacement housing payment for the purchase or rental of a comparable site as described in this section as applicable. &#xA7; 24.503 Replacement housing payment for 90-day mobile home occupants. A displaced tenant or owner-occupant of a mobile home and/or site is eligible for a replacement housing payment, not to exceed $9,570, under &#xA7; 24.402 if: (a) The person actually occupied the displacement mobile home on the displacement site for at least 90 days immediately prior to the initiation of negotiations; (b) The person meets the other basic eligibility requirements at &#xA7; 24.402(a); and (c) The agency acquires the mobile home and/or mobile home site, or the mobile home is not acquired by the agency, but the agency determines that the occupant is displaced from the mobile home because of one of the circumstances described at &#xA7; 24.502(a)(3). Subpart G-Certification &#xA7; 24.601 Purpose. This subpart permits a State agency to fulfill its responsibilities under the Uniform Act by certifying that it shall operate in accordance with State laws and regulations which shall accomplish the purpose and effect of the Uniform Act, in lieu of providing the assurances required by &#xA7; 24.4. &#xA7; 24.602 Certification application. An agency wishing to proceed on the basis of a certification may request an application for certification from the Lead Agency Director, Office of Real Estate Services, HEPR-1, Federal Highway Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590. The completed application for certification must be approved by the governor of the State, or the governor's designee, and must be coordinated with the Federal funding agency, in accordance with application procedures. &#xA7; 24.603 Monitoring and corrective action. (a) The Federal Lead Agency shall, in coordination with other Federal agencies, monitor from time to time State agency implementation of programs or projects conducted under the certification process and the State agency shall make available any information required for this purpose. (b) The Lead Agency may require periodic information or data from affected Federal or State agencies. (c) A Federal agency may, after consultation with the Lead Agency, and notice to and consultation with the governor, or his or her designee, rescind any previous approval provided under this subpart if the certifying State agency fails to comply with its certification or with applicable State law and regulations. The Federal agency shall initiate consultation with the Lead Agency at least 30 days prior to any decision to rescind approval of a certification under this subpart. The Lead Agency will also inform other Federal agencies, which have accepted a certification under this subpart from the same State agency and will take whatever other action that may be appropriate. (d) Section 103(b)(2) of the Uniform Act, as amended, requires that the head of the Lead Agency report biennially to the Congress on State agency implementation of section 103. To enable adequate preparation of the prescribed biennial report, the Lead Agency may require periodic information or data from affected Federal or State agencies. Appendix A to Part 24-Additional Information This appendix provides additional information to explain the intent of certain provisions of this part. Subpart A-General Section 24.2 Definitions and acronyms. Section 24.2(a) Comparable replacement dwelling, (ii). The requirement that a comparable replacement dwelling be &#x201C;functionally equivalent&#x201D; to the displacement dwelling, means that it must perform the same function and provide the same utility. The section states that it need not possess every feature of the displacement dwelling. However, the principal features must be present. For example, if the displacement dwelling contains a pantry and a similar dwelling is not available, a replacement dwelling with ample kitchen cupboards may be acceptable. Insulated and heated space in a garage might prove an adequate substitute for basement workshop space. A dining area may substitute for a separate dining room. Under some circumstances, attic space could substitute for basement space for storage purposes, and vice versa. Only in unusual circumstances may a comparable replacement dwelling contain fewer rooms or, consequentially, less living space than the displacement dwelling. Such may be the case when a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling (which by definition is &#x201C;adequate to accommodate&#x201D; the displaced person) may be found to be &#x201C;functionally equivalent&#x201D; to a larger but very run-down substandard displacement dwelling. Another example is when a displaced person accepts an offer of Government housing assistance and the applicable requirements of such housing assistance program require that the displaced person occupy a dwelling that has fewer rooms or less living space than the displacement dwelling. Section 24.2(a) Comparable replacement dwelling, (vii). The definition of comparable replacement dwelling requires that a comparable replacement dwelling for a person, who is not receiving assistance under any Government housing program before displacement, must be currently available on the private market without any subsidy under a Government housing program. Section 24.2(a) Comparable replacement dwelling, (ix). If a person accepts assistance under a Government housing assistance program, the rules of that program governing the size of the dwelling apply, and the rental assistance payment under &#xA7; 24.402 would be computed on the basis of the person's actual out-of-pocket cost for the replacement housing and associated utilities after the applicable Government assistance has been applied. Section 24.2(a) Decent, safe, and sanitary, (i)(A). Even where Federal or local law does not mandate adherence to standards requiring the abatement of deteriorating paint, including lead-based paint and lead-based paint dust, it is strongly recommended that they be considered as a matter of public policy. Section 24.2(a) Decent, safe, and sanitary, (v). Some local code standards for occupancy do not require kitchens. However, selection of comparable dwellings that provide a kitchen is recommended. The FHWA believes this is good practice and in most cases should be easily achievable. If the displacement dwelling had a kitchen, the comparable dwelling must have a kitchen. If the displacement dwelling did not have a kitchen but local code standards for occupancy require one, the comparable dwelling must contain a kitchen. If the displacement dwelling did not have a kitchen and local code standards for occupancy do not require one, an agency does not have to provide a kitchen in the comparable dwelling. If a kitchen is provided in the comparable dwelling, at a minimum it must contain a fully usable sink, properly connected to potable hot and cold water and to a sewage drainage system, and adequate space and utility service connections for a stove and refrigerator. Section 24.2(a) DSS-Persons with a disability, (vii). Reasonable accommodation of a displaced person with a disability at the replacement dwelling means the agency is required to address comparability for persons with a physical impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities. In these situations, reasonable accommodation should include the following at a minimum: Doors of adequate width; ramps or other assistance devices to traverse stairs and access bathtubs, shower stalls, toilets and sinks; storage cabinets, vanities, sink and mirrors at appropriate heights. Kitchen accommodations will include sinks and storage cabinets built at appropriate heights for access. The agency shall also consider other items that may be necessary, such as physical modification to a unit, based on the displaced person's needs. Requirements include but are not limited to Fair Housing Act (FHA), 42 U.S.C. 3604 (f)(3)(A)-(C), and/or HUD's regulations for newly constructed assisted housing under section 504, 24 CFR 8.22. Section 24.2(a) Displaced person-Occupants of a temporary, daily, or emergency shelter, (iii)(L). Shelters can serve many purposes, and each will have specific rules and requirements as to who can occupy or use the shelter and whether prolonged and continuous occupancy is allowed. Persons who are occupying a shelter that only allows overnight stays and requires the occupants to remove their personal property and themselves from the premises on a daily basis and that offers no guarantee of reentry in the evening typically would not meet the definition of displaced persons as used in this part, nor would the shelter meet the definition of dwelling as used in this part. Persons who live at the shelter on a continuous, prolonged, or permanent basis may be considered displaced. These determinations are fact-based determinations. Facts that might assist in the determination include whether the person is employed because they work to pay their rent or there may be a residential landlord-tenant relationship. The FHWA expects it would be unusual to displace a shelter occupant who meets the criteria for making a determination that he or she is a displaced person. Agencies should make reasonable effort to provide information about proposed vacation date or other plans for the shelter to relocate. Providing advisory assistance to shelter occupants may be a challenge due to the transient nature of shelter occupancy, but such assistance must be provided to the maximum extent practicable. Section 24.2(a) Dwelling site. This definition ensures that the computations of replacement housing payments are accurate and realistic (a) when the dwelling is located on a larger than normal site, (b) when mixed-use properties are acquired, (c) when more than one dwelling is located on the acquired property, or (d) when the replacement dwelling is retained by an owner and moved to another site. Section 24.2(a) Household income (exclusions). Household income for purposes of this part does not include program benefits that are not considered income by Federal law such as food stamps and the Women Infants and Children program. For a more detailed list of income exclusions see FHWA, Office of Real Estate Services website. 1 Contact the Federal agency administering the program if there is a question on whether to include income from a specific program. 1 http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/realestate/. Section 24.2(a) Initiation of negotiations. This section provides a special definition for acquisition and displacements under Public Law 96-510 or Superfund. The order of activities under Superfund may differ slightly in that temporary relocation may precede acquisition. Superfund is a program designed to clean up hazardous waste sites. When such a site is discovered, it may be necessary, in certain limited circumstances, to alert individual owners and tenants to potential health or safety threats and to offer to temporarily relocate them while additional information is gathered. If a decision is later made to permanently relocate such persons, those who had been temporarily relocated under Superfund authority would no longer be on site when a formal, written offer to acquire the property was made, and thus would lose their eligibility for a replacement housing payment. In order to prevent this unfair outcome, FHWA has provided a definition of initiation of negotiation, which is based on the date the Federal Government offers to temporarily relocate an owner or tenant from the subject property. Section 24.2(a) Initiation of negotiations, Tenants, (iv). Tenants who occupy property that may be voluntarily acquired, without recourse to the use of the power of eminent domain, must be fully informed as to their potential eligibility for relocation assistance when negotiations are initiated. If negotiations fail to result in a binding agreement the agency should notify tenants that negotiations have failed to result in a binding agreement and that the agency has concluded its efforts to acquire the property. If a tenant is not readily accessible, as the result of a disaster or emergency, the agency must provide these notifications and document its efforts in writing. As used in this definition, agreements such as options to purchase and conditional purchase and sale agreements are not considered binding agreements until all conditions to the agency's obligation to purchase the real property have been satisfied. A right to purchase property is not binding agreement because it does not require the State to purchase the property necessary for the project unless they elect to do so. A binding agreement as used in this definition is a legally enforceable document in which the property owner agrees to sell certain property rights necessary for a project and the agency agrees, without further election, to make that purchase. If negotiations fail to result in a binding agreement the agency should notify tenants that negotiations have failed to result in a binding agreement and that the agency has concluded its efforts to acquire the property. If a tenant is not readily accessible, as the result of a disaster or emergency, the agency must make a good faith effort to provide these notifications and document its efforts in writing. Applications for many Federal programs permit site control to be demonstrated by option contracts. Once the application for Federal financial assistance is approved, the acquiring agency must execute the purchase contract to receive the Federal financial assistance for the program or project. Therefore, if the purchase agreement satisfies the site control requirements of the Federal agency providing the Federal financial assistance, then the application date is the date of the initiation of negotiations for that program or project. Setting the initiation of negotiations at the earlier of the date of application or when all conditions to the obligation to purchase the real property have been satisfied, ensures that residents of a project are treated fairly, given that application approval and the ultimate sale of the property could be as long as six months to a year after the application date taking into account the application review and processing periods. A binding agreement as used in this section is a legally enforceable document in which the property owner agrees to sell certain property rights necessary for a project and the agency agrees to that purchase for a specified consideration. Section 24.2(a) Mobile home. In this part, the term &#x201C;mobile home&#x201D; will continue to be used to include those homes that are defined at 24 CFR part 3280 as a &#x201C;manufactured home.&#x201D; Regulations at 24 CFR 3280.2 defines &#x201C;manufactured home.&#x201D; The term &#x201C;mobile home&#x201D; was changed to &#x201C;manufactured home&#x201D; in 24 CFR part 3280 in 1979. The following examples provide additional guidance on the types of mobile homes that can be found acceptable as replacement dwellings for persons displaced from mobile homes. A recreational vehicle that is capable of providing living accommodations may be considered a replacement dwelling if the following criteria are met: the recreational vehicle is purchased and occupied as the &#x201C;primary&#x201D; place of residence; it is located on a purchased or leased site and connected to or has available all necessary utilities for functioning as a housing unit on the date of the agency's inspection; and, the dwelling, as sited, meets all local, State, and Federal requirements for a decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling. (The regulations of some local jurisdictions will not permit the consideration of these vehicles as DSS dwellings. In those cases, the recreational vehicle will not qualify as a replacement dwelling.) Section 24.3 No duplication of payments. This section prohibits an agency from making a payment to a person under this part that would duplicate another payment the person receives under Federal, State, or local law. The agency is not required to conduct an exhaustive search for such other payments; it is only required to avoid creating a duplication based on the agency's knowledge at the time a payment is computed. Section 24.5 Manner of Notices and Electronic Signatures. Property owners or occupants must voluntarily elect to receive notices, offers, correspondence and information via electronic methods. Alternatively, property owners or occupants may request delivery of notices, offers, correspondence and information via certified or registered first class mail, return receipt requested, instead of electronic means. Agencies must accommodate the property owner's or occupant's preference. The FHWA continues to believe that providing notices, offers, correspondence and information by either first-class mail or electronic means should not be used as a substitute for face-to-face meetings, but rather as a supplemental means of communication that accommodates an owner's or occupant's preference. An agency must be able to demonstrate to the Federal funding agency the ability to securely document the notice delivery and receipt confirmation in order to receive approval from the Federal funding agency for use of electronic delivery of notices, offers, correspondence, information, and electronic signature. Additional minimum safeguards that the agency must put in place prior to delivering notices, offers, correspondence, and information by electronic means and for the use of electronic signatures are included in the regulation at &#xA7; 24.5. Prior to the use of electronic delivery or electronic signature, there must be an agency process or procedure outlined in writing and approved by the Federal funding agency that details the requirements and rules the agency will follow when using electronic means for delivery of notices, offers, correspondence, and information. Should an agency decide to allow electronic signature the agency must develop procedures to ensure that signatures can be verified and documented appropriately. The FHWA understands that certain documents that are essential to the conveyance of the real property interests may not allow for electronic signature(s). Agencies must determine and document instances when electronic deliveries of notices or use of electronic signature are appropriate. An example of an appropriate use of electronic delivery of notices, offers, correspondence, and information might be to notify a property owner of his or her right to accompany an appraiser as required at &#xA7; 24.102(c)(1). Other appropriate uses may be to secure a release of mortgage or to confirm a property owners' receipt of the acquisition and relocation brochures. An example of when the use of electronic delivery or electronic signatures may not be appropriate is when the document being signed requires notarization or other similar verification. Electronic delivery of notices, offers, correspondence, and information may not always be a good option for relocation assistance where many actions are conducted in person at the displacement or replacement dwelling or business and require advisory services to be provided as part of the process. The FHWA notes that relocation assistance in part requires ongoing and continuous advisory services be provided (&#xA7; 24.205(c)). This may be best accomplished by face to face meetings during which the displaced person may more easily raise questions, request assistance, or indicate a need for additional advisory assistance. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive, nor are they exclusive of other opportunities to use this tool. For additional information, the specific Federal regulations that set out the format and examples for an electronic signature can be found at 37 CFR 1.4(d)(2). The regulations in 37 CFR 1.4(d)(2) fall under the purview of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which provides examples of what is considered to be proper format in a variety of electronically signed documents. Section 24.9(c) Reports. Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21) amended 42 U.S.C. 4633(b)(4) to require that each Federal agency subject to the Uniform Act submit an annual report describing activities conducted by the Federal agency. The FHWA believes that such a report that details activity provides a good indication of program health and scope. FHWA realizes that not all agencies subject to this reporting requirement currently have the ability to collect all information requested on the reporting form. However, Federal agencies may elect to provide a narrative report that focuses on their respective efforts to improve and enhance delivery of Uniform Act benefits and services. Narrative report information would include information on training offered, reviews conducted, or technical assistance provided to recipients. Agencies are not required by the Uniform Act to keep records of their efforts to improve the housing conditions of economically disadvantaged persons. However, agencies must ensure that their relocations are carried out in a manner which is consistent with the requirements of section 4621 of the Uniform Act. Section 24.11 Adjustment of Limits and Payments. FHWA will use the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) Seasonally Adjusted to determine if inflation, cost of living or other factors indicate that an adjustment to relocation benefits is warranted. Sample calculation: Assume CPI-U was 110.0 when the final rule was published. The fixed payment for nonresidential moving expenses has a ceiling of $53,200. During a subsequent evaluation after publication of the final rule, the CPI-U is calculated to be 115.5. Divide the new index by the base year index = 115.5/110.0 = 1.050 or 5 percent. This means there has been a 5 percent increase in prices and the fixed payment for nonresidential moving expenses ceiling should be increased 5 percent. Calculate fixed payment benefit ceiling = $53,200 &#xD7; 1.05 = $55,860. Subpart B-Real Property Acquisition For Federal eminent domain purposes, the terms &#x201C;fair market value&#x201D; (as used throughout this subpart) and &#x201C;market value,&#x201D; which may be the more typical term in private transactions, are synonymous. Section 24.101(a) Direct Federal program or project. All the requirements in subpart B of this part (real property acquisition) apply to all direct acquisitions for Federal programs and projects by Federal agencies, except for acquisitions undertaken by the Tennessee Valley Authority or the Rural Utilities Service. Section 24.101(b)(1)(i)(B). This section provides that, for programs and projects receiving Federal financial assistance described in &#xA7; 24.101(b)(1), agencies are to inform the owner(s) or their designated representative(s) in writing of the agency's estimate of the fair market value for the property to be acquired. Section 24.101(b)(1)(i)(B). While this part does not require an appraisal or waiver valuation for these transactions, agencies may still decide that an appraisal or waiver valuation is necessary to support their determination of the fair market value of these properties, and, in any event, persons developing a waiver valuation must have sufficient knowledge of the local market (&#xA7; 24.102(c)(2)(ii)(B)) in order to establish some reasonable basis for their determination of fair market value. In addition, some of the concepts inherent in Federal Program appraisal practice are appropriate for these determinations. It would be appropriate for agencies to adhere to project influence restrictions, as well as guard against discredited &#x201C;public interest value&#x201D; valuation concepts. After an agency has established an amount it believes to be the fair market value of the property and has notified the owner of this amount in writing, an agency may negotiate freely with the owner in order to reach agreement. Since these transactions are voluntary, accomplished by a willing buyer and a willing seller, negotiations may result in agreement for the amount of the original estimate, an amount exceeding it, or for a lesser amount. Although not required by this part, it would be entirely appropriate for agencies to ensure that estimates of fair market value are documented and shared with the property owner during negotiations, and to apply the administrative settlement concept and procedures in &#xA7; 24.102(i) to negotiate amounts that exceed the original estimate of fair market value. Agencies shall not take any coercive action in order to reach agreement on the price to be paid for the property. There may be an extraordinary circumstance in which use of eminent domain may be necessary. In those instances, the Federal funding agency may consider granting a waiver of regulations in this part under authority of &#xA7; 24.7. The Federal funding agency will make a fact based, case by case determination as to whether a waiver of this part's requirements may be allowed. Section 24.101(b)(1)(ii). The term &#x201C;general geographic area&#x201D; is used to clarify that an agency carrying out a project or program can achieve the purpose of the project or program by purchasing any of several properties that are not necessarily contiguous or are not limited to a specific group of properties. Section 24.101(b)(1)(ii) and (iii)-nexus. The funding agency should review the acquisition records and consider the relevant facts for the properties acquired to determine if the intent of the acquisition was to incorporate the real property into, or in some other way support or otherwise advance, a Federal or federally assisted program or project. If the property was acquired by other means ( e.g., local government acquisition via tax delinquency or exaction), documentation may be provided to show that the property was not acquired with the intent of including it in a Federal or federally assisted program or project. However, if at the time of acquisition, there is a nexus between the property's acquisition and a Federal or federally assisted program or project and if the intent was to acquire the property for a Federal or federally assisted program or project, the Uniform Act requirements must be followed to maintain Federal eligibility. If the agency is certain that eminent domain authority will not be used for the intended project or program, then the limited requirements of voluntary acquisition would apply. The agency must also consider that acquiring the property and applying only the voluntary acquisition requirements would in most cases preclude the agency from later using eminent domain authority to acquire the property should voluntary acquisitions not result in an agreement to sell the property to the agency. (See also discussion in 24.101(b)(1)(i)(B) of this appendix.) Section 24.101(b)(1)(iii) Private entities who acquire property to create wetlands. Private entities who acquire property to create wetlands for wetland banking purposes cannot be required to comply with the Uniform Act if there is no planned or anticipated use by a Federal or federally assisted program or project. Establishment of such wetland banks, which may include a Federal or federally funded project or program among its future users, do not necessarily trigger application of the Uniform Act requirements. There is not one answer that fits all third-party (private entities) environment mitigation scenarios. These determinations are fact-based by nature. However, the key issue is whether the acquisition of property for wetlands is specifically for mitigation of impacts on Federal or federally assisted programs or projects. When making a fact-based determination, the purpose of the wetland bank, the existence of any agency funding for the bank or commitment to use the bank, and whether the wetland bank restricts who may purchase mitigation credits from it, are among the factors to consider in determining applicability of Uniform Act requirements. If an agency provides Federal financial assistance for creating a wetland bank or has a prior agreement that the banked wetlands will be used to mitigate impacts on a specific Federal or federally assisted programs or projects, then the property acquisitions for the wetland bank must conform to Uniform Act requirements. If an agency contracts with a private third-party provider which does not use the power of eminent domain, the acquisition may qualify for treatment as a voluntary acquisition and only the limited requirements as set forth in &#xA7; 24.101(b)(1) would apply. If the wetland bank proposal has received necessary permits and was established without any Federal funding participation prior to use of Federal funds for acquisition of wetland mitigation credits and was not planned to be used only for mitigation of impacts due to Federal and federally assisted projects and programs, the Uniform Act requirements do not apply. The actions which the wetland bank developer took in carrying out their private activity can be viewed with regard to the Uniform Act in the same manner as other actions taken by private parties without the anticipated or actual benefit of Federal financial assistance. Section 24.101(c) Less-than-full-fee interest in real property. Section 24.101(c) provides a benchmark beyond which the requirements of the subpart clearly apply to leases. Section 24.102(b) Notice to owner. In the case of condominiums and other types of housing with common or community areas, notification should be given to the appropriate parties. The appropriate parties could be a condominium or homeowner's board, a designated representative, or all individual owners when common or community property is being acquired for the project. Section 24.102(c)(2) Appraisal, waiver thereof, and invitation to owner. The purpose of the appraisal waiver provision is to provide agencies a technique to avoid the costs and time delay associated with appraisal requirements for uncomplicated valuation problems within the low fair market value limits established in this part. In most cases, uncomplicated valuation problems are considered to be those involving unimproved strips of land. Acquisitions involving improvements, damages, changes of highest and best use, or significant costs to cure are considered to be complicated and, as such, are beyond the application of waiver valuations as contemplated in this part. The intent is that non-appraisers make the waiver valuations, freeing appraisers to do more complex work. The agency representative making the determination to use the waiver valuation option must have enough understanding of appraisal principles, techniques, and use of appraisals to be able to determine whether the proposed acquisition is uncomplicated and within the low fair market value limits in this part. Waiver valuations are not appraisals as defined by the Uniform Act and this part; therefore, appraisal performance requirements or standards, regardless of their source, are not required for waiver valuations by this part. Since waiver valuations are not appraisals, neither is there a requirement for an appraisal review. Agencies should put procedures in place to ensure that waiver valuations are accurate and that they are consistent with the unit values on the project as determined by appraisals and appraisal reviews. The agency must have a reasonable basis for the waiver valuation and an agency official must still establish an amount believed to be just compensation to offer the property owner(s) ( see &#xA7; 24.102(d)). The definition of &#x201C;appraisal&#x201D; in the Uniform Act and waiver valuation provisions of the Uniform Act and this part are Federal law and public policy and should be considered as such when determining the impact of appraisal requirements levied by others. Section 24.102(d) Establishment of offer of just compensation. The initial offer to the property owner may not be less than the amount of the agency's approved appraisal or waiver valuation of the fair market value of the property but may exceed that amount if the agency determines that a greater amount reflects just compensation for the property. Section 24.102(f) Basic negotiation procedures. An offer should be adequately presented to an owner, and the owner should be properly informed. Personal, face-to-face contact should take place, if feasible, but this section does not require such contact in all cases. This section also requires that the property owner be given a reasonable opportunity to consider the agency's offer and to present relevant material to the agency. In order to satisfy the requirement in &#xA7; 24.102(f), agencies must allow owners time for analysis, research and development, and compilation of a response, including perhaps getting an appraisal. The needed time can vary significantly, depending on the circumstances, but 30 days would seem to be the minimum time these actions can be reasonably expected to require. Regardless of project time pressures, property owners must be afforded this opportunity. In some jurisdictions, there is pressure to initiate formal eminent domain procedures at the earliest opportunity because completing the eminent domain process, including gaining possession of the needed real property, is very time consuming. The provisions of &#xA7; 24.102(f) are not intended to restrict this practice, so long as it does not interfere with the reasonable time that must be provided for negotiations, described in &#xA7; 24.102(f), and the agencies adhere to the Uniform Act ban on coercive action Section 4651(7) of the Uniform Act and &#xA7; 24.102(h)). If the owner expresses intent to provide an appraisal report, agencies are encouraged to provide the owner and/or their appraiser a copy of agency appraisal requirements and inform them that their appraisal should be based on those requirements. Section 24.102(i) Administrative settlement. This section provides guidance on administrative settlement as an alternative to judicial resolution of a difference of opinion on the value of a property in order to avoid unnecessary litigation and congestion in the courts. All relevant facts and circumstances should be considered by an agency official delegated this authority. Appraisers, including review appraisers, shall not be unduly influenced or coerced to adjust an estimate of value for the purpose of justifying such settlements (see &#xA7; 24.102(n)(2)). Such actions are contrary to the requirements of this part and to the overarching goal of providing just compensation. Section 24.102(j) Payment before taking possession. It is intended that a right-of-entry for construction purposes be obtained only in the exceptional case, such as an emergency project, when there is no time to make an appraisal and purchase offer and the property owner is agreeable to the process. Section 24.102(m) Fair rental. Section 4651(6) of the Uniform Act limits what an agency may charge when a former owner or previous occupant of a property is permitted to rent the property for a short term or when occupancy is subject to termination by the agency on short notice. Such rent may not exceed &#x201C;the fair rental value of the property to a short-term occupier.&#x201D; Generally, the agency's right to terminate occupancy on short notice (whether or not the renter also has that right) supports the establishment of a lesser rental than might be found in a longer, fixed-term situation. Section 24.102(n) Conflict of interest. The overall objective is to minimize the risk of fraud, waste, and abuse while allowing agencies to operate as efficiently as possible. There are three parts to the provision in &#xA7; 24.102(n). The first provision is the prohibition against having any interest in the real property being valued by the appraiser (for an appraisal), the valuer (for a waiver valuation), or the review appraiser (for an appraisal review). The second provision is that no person functioning as a negotiator for a project or program can supervise or formally evaluate the performance of any appraiser, waiver valuation preparer, or review appraiser performing appraisal, waiver valuation, or appraisal review work for that project or program. The intent of this provision is to ensure appraisal and/or waiver valuation independence and to prevent inappropriate influence. It is not intended to prevent agencies or recipients from providing appraiser and/or waiver valuers with appropriate project information or participating in determining the scope of work for the appraisal or waiver valuation. For a program or project receiving Federal financial assistance, the Federal funding agency may waive this requirement if it would create a hardship for the agency or recipient. The intent is to accommodate Federal financial aid recipients that have a small staff where this provision would be unworkable. The third provision is to minimize situations where administrative costs exceed acquisition costs. Section 24.102(n) provides that the same person may perform a waiver valuation or appraisal and negotiate that acquisition, if the waiver valuation or appraisal estimate amount is $15,000 or less. Agencies or recipients are not required to use those who perform a waiver valuation or appraisal of $15,000 or less to negotiate the acquisition. All appraisals must be reviewed in accordance with &#xA7; 24.104. This includes appraisals of real property valued at $15,000, or less. The third provision has been expanded to allow Federal funding agencies to permit use of a single agent for values of more than $15,000, but less than $35,000, but, as a safeguard, requires that an appraisal and appraisal review be done if the waiver valuation preparer or the appraiser will also act as the negotiator. Agencies or recipients desiring to exercise this option must request approval in writing from the Federal funding agency. The requesting agency shall have a separate and distinct quality control process for implementing this authority in place and set forth in the written procedures approved by the Federal funding agency. Agencies and recipients may delegate this authority to a subrecipient to use their approved authority if the subrecipient has an agency or recipient approved oversight mechanism to assure proper use and review of the authority. Section 24.103 Criteria for Appraisals. The term &#x201C;requirements&#x201D; is used throughout this section to avoid confusion with The Appraisal Foundation's Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) &#x201C;standards.&#x201D; Although this section discusses appraisal requirements, the definition of &#x201C;appraisal&#x201D; itself at &#xA7; 24.2(a) includes appraisal performance requirements that are an inherent part of this section. The term &#x201C;Federal and federally assisted program or project&#x201D; is used to better identify the type of appraisal practices that are to be referenced and to differentiate them from the private sector, especially mortgage lending, appraisal practice. Section 24.103(a) Appraisal requirements. The first sentence instructs readers that requirements for appraisals for Federal and federally assisted programs or projects are located in this part. These are the basic appraisal requirements for Federal and federally assisted programs or projects. However, agencies may enhance and expand on them, and there may be specific project or program legislation that references other appraisal requirements. The appraisal requirements in &#xA7; 24.103(a) are necessarily designed to comply with the Uniform Act and other Federal eminent domain based appraisal requirements. They are also considered to be consistent with Standards Rules 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the USPAP. Consistency with USPAP has been a feature of these appraisal requirements since the beginning of USPAP. This &#x201C;consistent&#x201D; relationship was more formally recognized in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Bulletin 92-06. While these requirements are considered consistent with USPAP, neither can supplant the other; their provisions are neither identical, nor interchangeable. Appraisals performed for Federal and federally assisted real property acquisition must follow the requirements in this part. Compliance with any other appraisal requirements is not within the purview of this part. An appraiser who is committed to working within the bounds of USPAP should recognize that compliance with both USPAP and the requirements in this part may be achieved by using the Scope of Work Rule and the Jurisdictional Exception Rule of USPAP, where applicable. The term &#x201C;scope of work&#x201D; defines the general parameters of the appraisal. It reflects the needs of the agency and the requirements of Federal and federally assisted program appraisal practice. It should be developed cooperatively by the assigned appraiser and an agency official who is competent to both represent the agency's needs and respect valid appraisal practice. The scope of work statement should include the purpose and/or function of the appraisal, a definition of the estate being appraised, whether it is fair market value, its applicable definition, and the assumptions and limiting conditions affecting the appraisal. It may include parameters for the data search and identification of the technology, including approaches to value, to be used to analyze the data. The scope of work should consider the specific requirements in &#xA7; 24.103(a)(2)(i) through (v) and address them as appropriate. Section 24.103(a)(1). The appraisal report should identify the items considered in the appraisal to be real property, as well as those identified as personal property. Section 24.103(a)(2). All relevant and reliable approaches to value are to be used. However, where an agency determines that the sales comparison approach will be adequate by itself and yield credible appraisal results because of the type of property being appraised and the availability of sales data, it may limit the appraisal assignment to the sales comparison approach. This should be reflected in the scope of work. Section 24.103(b) Influence of the project on just compensation. As used in this section, the term &#x201C;project&#x201D; means an undertaking which is planned, designed, and intended to operate as a unit. When the public is aware of the proposed project, project area property values may be affected. Therefore, property owners should not be penalized because of a decrease in value caused by the proposed project nor reap a windfall at public expense because of increased value created by the proposed project. Section 24.103(d)(1). The appraiser and review appraiser must each be qualified and competent to perform the appraisal and appraisal review assignments, respectively. Among other qualifications, State licensing or certification and professional society designations can help provide an indication of an appraiser's abilities. Section 24.104 Review of appraisals. The term &#x201C;review appraiser&#x201D; is used rather than &#x201C;reviewing appraiser,&#x201D; to emphasize that &#x201C;review appraiser&#x201D; is a separate specialty and not just an appraiser who happens to be reviewing an appraisal. Federal agencies have long held the perspective that appraisal review is a unique skill that, while it certainly builds on appraisal skills, requires additional skills. The review appraiser should possess both appraisal technical abilities and the ability to comprehend and communicate to the appraiser the agency's real property valuation needs, while recognizing and respecting the professional standards to which an appraiser is required to adhere. Agency review appraisers typically perform a role in land acquisition project management in addition to technical appraisal review. They are often involved in early project development by assisting the agency with project cost estimates for alternative project scenarios, identifying particularly complicated valuation problems that may need additional valuation specialties. In addition, they often provide the acquiring agency preliminary determinations about valuation problems, scope of work considerations, and types of appraisal reports necessary to complete a project. Later they may be involved in devising the scope of work statements and participate in making appraisal assignments to fee and/or staff appraisers. They are also mentors and technical advisors, especially on agency policy and requirements, to appraisers, both staff and fee. In addition, review appraisers are frequently technical advisors to other agency officials. Section 24.104(a). Section 24.104(a) states that the review appraiser is to review the appraiser's presentation and analysis of market information and that it is to be reviewed against &#xA7; 24.103 and other applicable requirements, including, to the extent appropriate, the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition. The appraisal review is to be a technical review by an appropriately qualified review appraiser. The qualifications of the review appraiser and the level of explanation of the basis for the review appraiser's recommended (or approved) value depend on the complexity of the appraisal problem. If the initial appraisal submitted for review is not acceptable, the review appraiser is to communicate and work with the appraiser to the greatest extent possible to facilitate the appraiser's performance of an acceptable appraisal. In doing this, the review appraiser is to remain in an advisory role, not directing the appraisal, and retaining objectivity and options for the appraisal review itself. If the agency intends that the staff review appraiser approve the appraisal (as the basis for the establishment of the amount believed to be just compensation) or establish the amount the agency believes is just compensation, she/he must be specifically authorized by the agency to do so. If the review appraiser is not specifically authorized to approve the appraisal (as the basis for the establishment of the amount believed to be just compensation), or establish the amount believed to be just compensation, that authority remains with another agency official. Section 24.104(b). In performing and reporting an independent approved or recommended value, the review appraiser may reference any acceptable resource, including acceptable parts of any appraisal, including an otherwise unacceptable appraisal. When a review appraiser performs their review assignment and reports an independent value different from the conclusions in the appraisal being reviewed, while retaining the appraisal review, that independent value also becomes the approved appraisal of the fair market value for Uniform Act section 4651(3) purposes. It is within agency discretion to decide whether a second review is needed if the first review appraiser establishes a value different from that in the appraisal report or reports on the property. Section 24.104(c). Before acceptance of an appraisal, the review appraiser must create a review report that documents the reviewer's determination that the appraiser's documentation, including valuation data and analysis of that data, demonstrates the soundness of the appraiser's opinion of value. For the purposes of this part, an acceptable appraisal is any appraisal that, on its own, meets the requirements of &#xA7; 24.103. An approved appraisal is the one acceptable appraisal that is determined to best fulfill the requirement to be the basis for the amount believed to be just compensation. Recognizing that appraisal is not an exact science, there may be more than one acceptable appraisal of a property, but for the purposes of this part, there can be only one approved appraisal. See &#xA7; 24.102(d). At the agency's discretion, for a low value property requiring only a simple appraisal solution, the review appraiser's recommendation (or approval), endorsing the appraiser's report, may be determined to satisfy the requirement for the review appraiser's signed report and certification. Section 24.106(a). Expenses incidental to transfer of title to the agency. Generally, the agency is able to pay such incidental costs directly and, where feasible, is required to do so. In order to prevent the property owner from making unnecessary out-of-pocket expenditures and to avoid duplication of expenses, the property owner should be informed early in the acquisition process of the agency's intent to make such arrangements. Such expenses must be reasonable and necessary. Subpart C-General Relocation Requirements Section 24.202 Applicability and Section 24.205(c) Relocation Advisory Services to be provided. In extraordinary circumstances, when a displaced person is not readily accessible, the agency must make a good faith effort to comply with &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.202 and 24.205(c) and the Uniform Act and document its efforts in writing. Section 24.204 Availability of comparable replacement dwelling before displacement. Section 24.204(a) General. Section 24.204(a) requires that no one may be required to move from a dwelling without a comparable replacement dwelling having been made available. In addition, &#xA7; 24.204(a) requires that, where possible, three or more comparable replacement dwellings shall be made available. Thus, the basic standard for the number of referrals required under this section is three. Only in situations where three comparable replacement dwellings are not available ( e.g., when the local housing market does not contain three comparable dwellings) may the agency make fewer than three referrals. Section 24.205 Relocation assistance advisory services. Section 24.205(a). As part of the relocation planning process agencies should, to the extent practical, identify relocations that may require additional time for advisory services and coordination for their relocations. Such relocations may include the elderly, those with medical needs, and those in public housing or other federally subsidized housing. In each of these examples, the nature of the relocation means that the unique needs of the relocated person should be determined early and that the relocation agent should make full use of available social services and other program support (examples include local transportation services that may be available in certain areas, financial support available from local, Federal, and State agencies, and community support services that may be available) in considering and developing a relocation plan. Section 24.205(c)(2)(ii)(C). Where feasible, comparable replacement housing must be inspected. The comparable replacement dwellings should be inspected by a walk through and physical interior and exterior inspection before being offered to a displaced person. Reliance on an exterior visual inspection or examination of a multiple listing service (MLS) listing, in most cases, does not constitute a complete DSS inspection. If an inspection is not possible, the displaced person must be informed in writing that an inspection was not possible and be provided an explanation of why the inspection was not possible. They also must be informed in writing that if the uninspected comparable is selected as a replacement dwelling a replacement housing payment may not be made until the replacement dwelling is inspected and determined to be decent, safe, and sanitary. Should the selected comparable later be found to not be DSS then the agency's policies and procedures must ensure that the requirements of &#xA7; 24.2(a), definition of decent, safe and sanitary dwelling, are met. If the agency does not recalculate the eligibility in these instances, FHWA does not believe that the requirement to ensure comparable housing is made available to the displaced person can be met. Each agency should clearly inform displaced persons that a DSS inspection as required by this part is only a brief inspection to ensure that certain requirements as they relate to the definition of DSS in this part are being met. These DSS inspections are not the same as a full home inspection similar to that which a home inspector would be hired to do. Agencies may develop more restrictive DSS inspection requirements which may include required DSS inspections for selected comparable dwellings, all comparable dwellings used to establish a displaced persons replacement housing payment eligibility, or other more stringent DSS inspection requirements for comparable dwellings. Section 24.205(c)(2)(ii)(D) This section emphasizes that if the comparable replacement dwellings are located in areas of minority concentration, minority persons should, if possible, also be given opportunities to relocate to replacement dwellings not located in such areas to improve their housing condition when they relocate. The focus on those displaced from areas of minority concentration in this section has been consistently applied for almost 40 years. The FHWA believes that where practical and feasible, agencies carrying out relocations should provide those who live in areas of minority concentration opportunities to improve their living situations. To the extent practical, agencies should maintain adequate written documentation of efforts made to locate such comparable replacement housing. Section 24.206 Eviction for cause. An eviction necessitated by project related non-compliance ( e.g., failure to move or relocate when instructed, or to cooperate in the relocation process) does not negate a person's entitlement to relocation payments and other assistance set forth in this part. Section 24.207 General Requirements-Claims for relocation payments. Section 24.207(a) allows an agency to make a payment for low cost or uncomplicated nonresidential moves without additional documentation, as long as the payment is limited to the amount of the lowest acceptable bid or estimate, as provided for in &#xA7; 24.301(d)(1). While &#xA7; 24.207(f) prohibits an agency from proposing or requesting that a person waive his or her rights or entitlements to relocation assistance and payments, an agency may accept a written statement from the person that states that they have chosen not to accept some or all of the payments or assistance to which they are entitled. Any such written statement must clearly show that the individual knows what they are entitled to receive (a copy of the Notice of Eligibility which was provided may serve as documentation) and their statement must specifically identify which assistance or payments they have chosen not to accept. The statement must be signed and dated and may not be coerced by the agency. Section 24.208(c) Aliens not lawfully present in the United States-computing relocation payments if some members of a displaced family are present lawfully but others are present unlawfully. If a person who is a member of a family being displaced is not eligible for and does not receive Uniform Act benefits because he or she is not lawfully in the United States, that person's income shall not be excluded from the computation of family income. The person's income is counted unless the agency is certain that the ineligible person will not continue to reside with the family. To exclude the ineligible person's income would result in a windfall by providing a higher relocation payment. There are two different methods for computing relocation payments in situations where some members of a displaced family are present lawfully, but others are present unlawfully. For moving expenses, the payment is to be based on the proportion of lawfully present occupants to the total number of occupants. For example, if four out of five members of a family to be displaced are lawfully present, the proportion of lawful occupants is 80 percent and that percentage is to be applied against the moving expenses payment that otherwise would have been received. Similarly, unlawful occupants are not counted as a part of the family for RHP calculations. Thus, a family of five, one of whom is a person not lawfully present in the U.S., would be counted as a family of four. The comparable replacement dwelling for the family would reflect the makeup of the remaining four persons, and the RHP would be computed accordingly. A &#x201C;pro rata&#x201D; approach to an RHP calculation is not permitted unless use of the two permitted methods discussed in this section would create an exceptional and extremely unusual hardship (consistent with Pub. L. 105-117; codified at 42 U.S.C. 4605). Following such a calculation would require that the agency disregard alien status for comparability determination, select a comparable and then apply a percentage to the RHP amount. A &#x201C;pro rata&#x201D; calculation approach for RHP may result in a higher RHP eligibility than the displaced persons would otherwise be eligible to receive. The &#x201C;pro rata&#x201D; approach of providing a percentage of the calculated RHP eligibility is contrary to the requirements of the Uniform Act and this part. A correct example of a calculation would be: Household of seven (including one alien not lawfully present individually occupying one bedroom.) Displacement dwelling-4 BR unit, with rent/utilities of $1,200/month Housing requirements for all lawful occupants (six) is a 3 BR unit Comparable dwelling 3 BR unit with rent/utilities of $1,300/month Calculation of RHP under &#xA7; 24.208(c) (alien not lawfully present excluded) $1,300 (comparable)&#x2212;$1,200 (displacement unit) = $100 RHP &#xD7; 42 months = $4,200 RHP Section 24.208(h) The meaning of the term &#x201C;exceptional and extremely unusual hardship&#x201D; focuses on significant and demonstrable impacts on health, safety, or family cohesion. This phrase is intended to allow judgment on the part of the agency and does not lend itself to an absolute standard applicable in all situations. When considering whether a hardship exemption is appropriate, an agency may examine only the impact on an alien's spouse, parent, or child who is a citizen, or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States. In determining who is a spouse, agencies should use the definition of that term under State or other applicable law. A standard of hardship involves more than the loss of relocation payments and/or assistance alone. Also, income alone (for example, measured as a percentage of income spent on housing) would not make the denial of benefits an &#x201C;exceptional and extremely unusual hardship&#x201D; and qualify for a hardship exemption. In keeping with the principle of allowing agencies maximum reasonable discretion, FHWA believes the decision regarding what documentation is required to support a claim of hardship is one best left to the Federal funding agency, as long as the decision is handled in a nondiscriminatory manner. Subpart D-Payments for Moving and Related Expenses Section 24.301 Payment for Actual Reasonable Moving and Related Expenses. Section 24.301(e) Personal property only. Examples of personal property only moves might be: personal property that is located on a portion of property that is being acquired, but the business, farm, nonprofit or residence will not be acquired and the business can still operate after the acquisition; personal property that is located in a mini-storage facility that will be acquired or relocated; or, personal property that is stored on vacant land that is to be acquired. For such a residential personal property move, there may be situations in which the costs of obtaining moving bids may exceed the cost to move. In those situations, the agency may allow an eligibility determination and payment based upon the use of the &#x201C;additional room&#x201D; category of the Fixed Residential Move Cost Schedule at www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/uniform_act/relocation/moving_cost_schedule.cfm. For a nonresidential personal property only move, the owner of the personal property has the options of moving the personal property by using a commercial mover or a self-move. If a question arises concerning the reasonableness of an actual cost move, the agency may obtain estimates from qualified movers to use as the standard in determining the payment. Section 24.301(g)(3) Modifications to personal property or to utilities. Construction costs for a new building at the business replacement site, costs to substantially reconstruct a building, or rehabilitate a building are generally ineligible for reimbursement as are expenses for disconnecting, dismantling, removing, reassembling, and reinstalling relocated personal property. Section 24.301(g)(14) Relettering signs and replacing stationery. This may include changes to the content of other media that need correcting due to the displacement, such as DVDs and CDs. This may also include modifications to websites that would modify and edit contact and new location information made necessary because of the move. Agencies will need to determine when these costs are actual, reasonable, and necessary. Section 24.301(g)(15)(i) This section only applies when equipment is not being moved to replacement site and therefore it becomes an actual loss of tangible personal property. Under &#xA7; 24.301(g)(15)(i), if the piece of equipment is operational at the acquired site, the estimated cost to reconnect the equipment shall be based on the cost to install the equipment as it currently exists and shall not include the cost of code-required betterments or upgrades that may apply at the replacement site. As prescribed in the part, the allowable in-place value estimate (&#xA7; 24.301(g)(15)(i)(B)) and moving cost estimate must reflect only the &#x201C;as is&#x201D; condition and installation of the item at the displacement site. The in-place value estimate may not include costs that reflect code or other requirements that were not in effect at the displacement site. The in-place value estimate may also not include installation costs for machinery or equipment that is not operable or not installed at the displacement site (&#xA7; 24.301(g)(15) (ii)). Value in place can be obtained by hiring a machinery and equipment (M&E) appraiser or value can be estimated via websites available for M&E valuations. An example of one resource is The Association of Machinery and Equipment Appraisers (AMEA) website. 2 The AMEA is a nonprofit professional association whose mission is to accredit certified equipment appraisers. Another example of available resources can be found on the website of The American Society of Appraisers, a multi-discipline, nonprofit, international organization of professional appraisers. They maintain a separate web page for machinery and equipment appraisers. 3 Should an agency find itself in need of a machinery and equipment appraisal, a web search for either &#x201C;machinery and equipment appraisers&#x201D; or &#x201C;machinery and equipment appraiser's organizations&#x201D; will provide a number of resources which can be used to find the necessary services and resources. It is important to note that FHWA does not endorse or recommend any organization, society, or professional group. The information provided in this appendix is strictly informational. 2 http://www.amea.org/ . 3 http://www.appraisers.org/Disciplines/Machinery-Technical-Specialties . Section 24.301(g)(18) Searching expenses. In special cases where the agency determines it to be reasonable and necessary, certain additional categories of searching costs may be considered for reimbursement. These include those costs involved in investigating potential replacement sites and the time of the business owner, based on salary or earnings, required to apply for licenses or permits, zoning changes, and attendance at zoning hearings. Necessary attorney's fees required to obtain such licenses or permits are also reimbursable. Expenses negotiating the purchase of a replacement business site are also reimbursable based on a reasonable salary or earnings rate. In those instances when such additional costs to investigate and acquire the site exceed $5,000, the agency may consider requesting a waiver of the cost limitation under the &#xA7; 24.7 waiver provision. Such a waiver should be subject to the approval of the Federal funding agency in accordance with existing delegation of authority. As an alternative to the preceding sentences in this section, Federal funding agencies may determine that it is appropriate to allow for payment of searching expenses of $1,000 with minimal or no documentation under this part. It is expected that each Federal funding agency will consider and address the potential for waste, fraud, or abuse and may develop additional requirements to implement this provision. Such requirements may include development of procedures or by requiring specific changes or inclusions in the written procedures approved by the Federal funding agency. Search expenses may be incurred anytime the business anticipates it may be displaced, including prior to project authorization or the initiation of negotiations. However, such expenses cannot be reimbursed until the business has received the notice in &#xA7; 24.203(b) and only after the agency has determined such costs to be actual, reasonable, and necessary as a result of the displacement. Section 24.302 -The occupant of a seasonal residence could receive a payment based upon the Fixed Residential Move Cost Schedule or actual moving expenses in accordance with &#xA7; 24.301. Persons owning or renting seasonal residences are generally not eligible for any relocation payments other than personal property moving expenses. Section 24.303(a). Actual, reasonable, and necessary reimbursement for connection to available utilities are for the necessary improvements to utility services currently available at the replacement property. Examples include (a) a Laundromat business that requires a larger service tap than the typical business service tap already on the property, and (b) a business that requires an upgrade or enhancement of the existing single phase electrical service to provide 3-phase electrical service. Section 24.303(b) Professional services. If a question should arise as to what is a &#x201C;reasonable hourly rate,&#x201D; the agency should compare the rates of other similar professional providers in that area. Section 24.303(c) Impact fees and one-time assessments for anticipated heavy utility usage. Section 24.303(c) limits impact fees or one-time assessments to those levied for anticipated heavy utility usage to utilities, e.g., water, sewer, gas, and electric. Impact fees and one time assessments that may be levied on a nonresidential relocated person in their replacement location for other major infrastructure construction or use such as roads, fire stations, regional drainage improvements, and parks are not eligible. Providing information on the potential eligibility of impact fees for anticipated heavy utility usage is an important advisory service. Section 24.304(b)(5) Ineligible expenses. The cost of constructing, reconstructing, or rehabilitating a replacement structure, is a capital expenditure, normally beyond the scope of &#xA7; 24.304(a)(2) and is generally ineligible for reimbursement as a reestablishment expense. In those rare instances when a business cannot relocate without construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of a replacement structure, an agency or recipient may request a waiver of &#xA7; 24.304(b)(5) under the provisions of &#xA7; 24.7. An example of such an instance would be in a rural area where there are no suitable buildings available and the new construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of a replacement structure is the only option that will enable the business to remain a viable commercial operation. If a waiver is granted, the cost of new construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of a replacement structure will be considered an eligible reestablishment expense subject to the regulatory limit on such payment. In markets where existing and new buildings are available for rental (and sometimes for purchase), the buildings or the various units available within the buildings often have only the basic amenities such as heat, light, and water, and sewer available. These buildings or units are referred to as shells. The cost of constructing, reconstructing, or rehabilitating a shell is not an eligible reestablishment expense because the shell is considered a capital real estate improvement (a capital asset). However, this determination does not preclude the consideration by an agency of certain modifications to an existing replacement business building as reestablishment costs if the agency applies a waiver under &#xA7; 24.7. A certain degree of construction costs are generally expected by the market because shells are designed to be customized by the tenant. An agency using a waiver may determine costs for these types of improvements or modifications are eligible for reimbursement, up to the amount of $33,200. Such costs may include the addition of necessary facilities such as bathrooms, room partitions, built-in display cases, and similar items, if required by Federal, State, or local codes, ordinances, or simply considered reasonable and necessary for the operation of the business. By contrast, a structure or shell which is dilapidated or is in disrepair and which requires construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation would not be eligible for reimbursement under this part. Section 24.305 Fixed payment for moving expenses-nonresidential moves. Section 24.305(a) Business. If a business elects the fixed payment for moving expenses (in lieu of payment) option, the payment represents its full and final payment for all relocation expenses. Should the business elect to receive this payment, it would not be eligible for any other relocation assistance payments including actual moving or related expenses, or reestablishment expenses. Section 24.305(c) Farm operation. If a farm operation elects the fixed payment for moving expenses (in lieu of payment) option, the payment represents its full and final payment for all relocation expenses. Should the farm elect to receive this payment, it would not be eligible for any other relocation assistance payments including actual moving or related expenses, and reestablishment expenses. Section 24.305(d) Nonprofit organization. Gross revenues may include membership fees, class fees, cash donations, tithes, receipts from sales, or other forms of fund collection that enables the nonprofit organization to operate. Administrative expenses are those for administrative support such as rent, utilities, salaries, advertising, and other like items, as well as fundraising expenses. Operating expenses for carrying out the purposes of the nonprofit organization are not included in administrative expenses. The monetary receipts and expense amounts may be verified with certified financial statements or financial documents required by public agencies. If a nonprofit organization elects the fixed payment for moving expenses (in lieu of payment) option, the payment represents its full and final payment for all relocation expenses. Should the nonprofit organization elect to receive this payment, it would not be eligible for any other relocation assistance payments including actual moving or related expenses, or reestablishment expenses. Section 24.305(e) Average annual net earnings of a business or farm operation. Section 24.305(a)(6) requires that the business contribute materially to the income of the displaced person during the 2 taxable years prior to displacement. This does not mean that the business needed to be in existence for a minimum of 2 years prior to displacement to be eligible for this payment. If a business has been in operation for only a short period of time ( i.e., 6 months) prior to displacement, the fixed payment would be based on the net earnings of the business at the displacement site for the actual period of operation projected to an annual rate. If a business was not in operation for a full 2 years, the existing net earnings income data should be used to project what the net earnings could be if the business were in operation for a full 2 years. If the business is seasonal, the business' operating season net income represents the full annual income for the purposes of calculating this benefit. For Example: (1) Business in operation for only 6 months earned $ 10,000. Computation: ($10,000/6) &#xD7; 12 = $20,000 annual net earnings &#xD7; 2 years = $40,000 divided by 2 = $20,000; Eligibility = $20,000. (Average annual net earnings.) (2) Business in operation 18 months earned $20,000. Computation: $20,000 divided by 18 months = $1,111 per month &#xD7; 24 months = $26,664 divided by 2 years = $13,332; Eligibility = $13,332 (Average annual net earnings) (3) Business is seasonal-open summer only for 4 months and earns $5,000. Computation: $5,000 was the seasonal net earnings 1 year and $6,000 was the seasonal net earnings a second year. $11,000 divided by 2 = $5,500; Eligibility = $5,500. (Average annual net earnings) If the average annual net earnings of the displaced business, farm, or nonprofit organization are determined to be less than $1,000, even $0 or a negative amount, the minimum payment of $1,000 shall be provided (49 CFR 24.305(a)). Section 24.306 Discretionary utility relocation payments. Section 24.306(c) describes the issues that the agency and the utility facility owner must agree to in determining the amount of the relocation payment. To facilitate and aid in reaching such agreement, the practices in 23 CFR part 645, subpart A, should be followed. Subpart E-Replacement Housing Payments Section 24.401 Replacement housing payment for 90-day homeowner-occupants. Section 24.401(a)(2). An extension of eligibility may be granted if some event beyond the control of the displaced person such as acute or life threatening illness, bad weather preventing the completion of construction, or physical modifications required for reasonable accommodation of a replacement dwelling, or other like circumstances causes a delay in occupying a decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling. Section 24.401(c)(2)(iii) Price differential. The provision in &#xA7; 24.401(c)(2)(iii) to use the current fair market value for residential use does not mean the agency must have the property appraised. Any reasonable method for arriving at the fair market value may be used. Section 24.401(d) Increased mortgage interest costs. The provision in &#xA7; 24.401(d) sets forth the factors to be used in computing the payment that will be required to reduce a person's replacement mortgage (added to the down payment) to an amount which can be amortized at the same monthly payment for principal and interest over the same period of time as the remaining term on the displacement mortgages. This payment is commonly known as the &#x201C;buydown.&#x201D; The agency must know the remaining principal balance, the interest rate, and monthly principal and interest payments for the old mortgage as well as the interest rate, points, and term for the new mortgage to compute the increased mortgage interest costs. If the combination of interest and points for the new mortgage exceeds the current prevailing fixed interest rate and points for conventional mortgages and there is no justification for the excessive rate, then the current prevailing fixed interest rate and points shall be used in the computations. Justification may be the unavailability of the current prevailing rate due to the amount of the new mortgage, credit difficulties, or other similar reasons. Sample Computation Old Mortgage: Remaining Principal Balance $50,000 Monthly Payment (principal and interest) $458.22 Interest rate (percent) 7 New Mortgage: Interest rate (percent) 10 Points 3 Term (years) 15 Remaining term of the old mortgage is determined to be 174 months. Determining, or computing, the actual remaining term is more reliable than using the data supplied by the mortgagee. However, if it is shorter, use the term of the new mortgage and compute the needed monthly payment. Amount to be financed to maintain monthly payments of $458.22 at 10% = $42,010.18. Calculation: Remaining Principal Balance $50,000.00 Minus Annual Monthly Payment (principal and interest) &#x2212;42,010.18 Increased mortgage interest costs 7,989.82 3 points on $42,010.18 1,260.31 Total buydown necessary to maintain payments at $458.22/month 9,250.13 If the new mortgage actually obtained is less than the computed amount for a new mortgage ($42,010.18), the buydown shall be prorated accordingly. If the actual mortgage obtained in our example were $35,000, the buydown payment would be $7,706.57 ($35,000 divided by $42,010.18 = .8331; $9,250.13 multiplied by .83 = $7,706.57). The agency is obligated to inform the displaced person of the approximate amount of this payment and to advise the displaced person of the interest rate and points used to calculate the payment. The FHWA has an online tool to calculate increased mortgage interest costs for fixed, and interest only loans at https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/uniform_act/relocation/midpcalcs/. Section 24.401(e) Reverse Mortgage. The provision in &#xA7; 24.401(e) sets forth the factors to be considered to estimating an amount, after paying off the existing balance, sufficient to purchase a replacement reverse mortgage that provides a tenure or term payment, line of credit, or lump-sum disbursement. The agency must know the value of the acquired dwelling, existing balance of displacement reverse mortgage, remaining equity, and price of the selected comparable or actual replacement dwelling, to compute the estimated reverse mortgage supplement payment for a replacement reverse mortgage. In cases where there is a tenure or term payment additional information such as the age of the youngest borrower, amounts of the tenure payment, amount and remaining term of term payment and the current interest rate, is needed to calculate the payment and will require the assistance of a reverse mortgage broker. Below are four scenarios for relocation payment eligibilities. As you will note, the eligibility is the same in each case; however, benefit amounts will vary depending on the individual's circumstance and existing reverse mortgage terms. This appendix also contains a list of other possible agency options, should a displaced person elect to use them; however, they are not recommended by FHWA because they do not place the person into a replacement reverse mortgage. Situation 1-Owner has sufficient remaining equity to obtain a replacement reverse mortgage for purchase. Situation 2-Owner's existing reverse mortgage has a tenure disbursement payment and there is not sufficient remaining equity to obtain a replacement reverse mortgage. Situation 3-Owner's existing reverse mortgage has a term disbursement payment and there is not sufficient remaining equity to obtain a replacement reverse mortgage. Situation 4-Owner's existing reverse mortgage is a line of credit and there is not sufficient remaining equity to obtain a replacement reverse mortgage. The displaced homeowner may be eligible for the following relocation payments: &#x2022; A price differential payment in accordance with &#xA7; 24.401(c). The owner would be eligible for a price differential payment (the difference between the comparable replacement dwelling and the acquisition cost of the displacement dwelling). &#x2022; The administrative costs and incidental expenses necessary to establish the new reverse mortgage. Incidental costs incurred with a replacement reverse mortgage are reimbursable and fall into three categories-Mortgage insurance premium (MIP), loan origination fee, and closing costs. &#x2022; A mortgage interest differential payment if the homeowner incurs a higher interest rate on the new reverse mortgage. The payment would be based on the difference between the displacement adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) cap rate at the initiation of negotiations and the available ARM cap rate and those rates would be used as the components to calculate the MIDP in accordance with the sample calculation provided at section 24.401(d) of this appendix. The agency must advise the displaced person of the interest rate used to calculate the payment. Note that most reverse mortgages are monthly adjustable rate mortgages, so any interest differential payment would be minimal. &#x2022; If the displaced homeowner elects to relocate into rental housing rather than remain a homeowner, then the agency will calculate relocation assistance payments in accordance with &#xA7; 24.401(g). For example, the agency computes a rental assistance payment of $10,000 for the owners based on a comparable replacement rental dwelling. When the owners settle with the agency, the owner will pay off the balance of the reverse mortgage and retain any remaining equity in the property. They are eligible for the rental assistance payment when they rent and occupy the DSS replacement dwelling. Note: In all situations, if the displaced homeowner elects to relocate into rental housing rather than remain homeowner, then the agency will calculate relocation assistance payments in accordance with &#xA7; 24.401(g). Note: If the existing reverse mortgage was a lump-sum or line-of-credit which has been exhausted, then the agency is not under obligation to replace those amounts, but only to replace the reverse mortgage with a reverse mortgage with terms and equity similar to the displacement reverse mortgage. Other agency options (not recommended unless elected by the displaced person, since they do not place the person into the same situation as the displacement reverse mortgage provided): &#x2022; A direct loan as set forth in &#xA7; 24.404 under housing of last resort. &#x2022; A life estate interest in a comparable replacement dwelling under replacement housing of last resort. &#x2022; Agency purchases a comparable replacement dwelling and retains ownership and conveys a leasehold interest to the owner for his/her lifetime. &#x2022; Agency offers a comparable replacement rental dwelling to convert the homeowner-occupant to tenant status. Section 24.402 Replacement Housing Payment for 90-day tenants and certain others. Section 24.402(b)(2) Low income calculation example. The Uniform Act requires that an eligible displaced person who rents a replacement dwelling is entitled to a rental assistance payment calculated in accordance with &#xA7; 24.402(b). One factor in this calculation is to determine if a displaced person is classified as having &#x201C;low income,&#x201D; as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's annual survey of income limits for the Public Housing and Section 8 Programs. To make such a determination, the agency must: (1) Determine the total number of members in the household (including all adults and children); (2) locate the appropriate table for income limits applicable to the Uniform Act for the State in which the displaced residence is located (found at: https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/policy_guidance/low_income_calculations/index.cfm ); (3) from the list of local jurisdictions shown, identify the appropriate county, Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA),* or Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area (PMSA)* in which the displacement property is located; and (4) locate the appropriate income limit in that jurisdiction for the size of this displaced person/family. The income limit must then be compared to the household income (defined at &#xA7; 24.2(a)) which is the gross annual income received by the displaced family, excluding income from any dependent children and full-time students under the age of 18. If the household income for the eligible displaced person/family is less than or equal to the income limit, the family is considered &#x201C;low income.&#x201D; For example: Tom and Mary Smith and their three children are being displaced. The information obtained from the family and verified by the agency is as follows: Tom Smith, employed, earns $21,000/yr. Mary Smith, receives disability payments of $6,000/yr. Tom Smith, Jr., 21, employed, earns $10,000/yr. Mary Jane Smith, 17, student, has a paper route, earns $3,000/yr. (Income is not included because she is a dependent child and a full-time student under 18) Sammie Smith, 10, full-time student, no income. Total family income for five persons is: $35,000 + 12,000 + $18,000 = $65,000 The displacement residence is located in the State of Maryland, Caroline County. The low income limit for a five person household is: $77,950. (2022 Income Limits) This household is considered &#x201C;low income.&#x201D; * A complete list of counties and towns included in the identified MSAs and PMSAs can be found under the bulleted item &#x201C;Income Limit Area Definition&#x201D; posted on the FHWA's website at: https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/. Section 24.402(c) Down payment assistance. The down payment assistance provisions in &#xA7; 24.402(c) limit such assistance to the amount of the computed rental assistance payment for a tenant. It does, however, provide the latitude for agency discretion in offering down payment assistance that exceeds the computed rental assistance payment, up to the $9,570 statutory maximum. This does not mean, however, that such agency discretion may be exercised in a selective or discriminatory fashion. The agency should develop a policy or requirement that affords equal treatment for displaced persons in like circumstances and this or requirement should be applied uniformly throughout the agency's programs or projects. For the purpose of this section, a displaced homeowner who elects to rent a replacement dwelling may not receive more than the eligibility the homeowner would have received as an eligible displaced homeowner purchasing a home. Section 24.404(c)(3) requires the agency to provide assistance to a displaced owner or tenant occupant who fails to meet the 90-day requirement for length of occupancy of the displacement dwelling, prior to the initiation of negotiations, which is required for eligibility to receive a replacement housing payment under &#xA7;&#xA7; 24.401 and 24.402. Section 24.403(a)(1) Determining cost of comparable replacement dwelling. The requirement that if available at least 3 comparable dwellings should be considered when selecting a comparable dwelling when determining and calculating a replacement housing payment eligibility. Consideration, examination, or the viewing of an MLS listing does not equate to the inspection of the comparable dwelling required by &#xA7; 24.205(c)(2)(ii)(C), which requires that at a minimum, the comparable dwelling should be physically inspected. When an inspection is not feasible, the displaced person must be informed in writing that a physical inspection of the interior or exterior was not performed, the reason that the inspection was not performed, and that if the comparable is selected as a replacement dwelling a replacement housing payment may not be made unless the replacement dwelling is subsequently inspected and determined to be decent, safe, and sanitary. Should the selected comparable dwelling later be found to not be DSS then the agency's policies and procedures must ensure that the requirements of &#xA7; 24.2(a), definition of decent, safe and sanitary dwelling, are met. If the agency does not recalculate the eligibility in these instances, FHWA does not believe that the requirement to ensure comparable housing is made available to the displaced person can be met. Some Federal funding agency requirements, such as those of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, prohibit reliance on an exterior visual inspection when selecting a comparable replacement dwelling or as part of determining the cost of comparable replacement dwellings. This is because the physical condition standards for such governmental housing assistance programs could not be met without an in-person physical inspection. Section 24.403(a)(2) Carve Out of a Major Exterior Attribute. When determining the cost of a replacement dwelling, this section requires that the contributory value of a major exterior attribute, as determined in the real property valuation, be subtracted from the acquisition price of the displacement dwelling for purposes of computing the replacement housing payment if the comparable replacement dwelling lacks the major exterior attribute. The adjustment to the value of the displacement dwelling for the purpose of computing a replacement housing payment eligibility when a major exterior attribute is not available in the comparable replacement housing on the open market is often referred to as a &#x201C;carve out.&#x201D; Examples of such major exterior attributes may include land in excess of that typical in size for the neighborhood, a swimming pool, shed, or garage. Use of a carve out allows agencies to ensure comparable dwellings are available to the displaced person. The displaced person has received just compensation for the carved out attribute and may decide to use that compensation to replace the attribute. However, it should be noted that some carved out attributes, acreage as one example, cannot always be replaced in the immediate market and a displaced person may then have to decide whether they want to expand their search area and reconsider their desired replacement home location. The following are examples of the calculation process. (Example A) RHP Computation for Carve Out of a Major Exterior Attribute of a Displacement Property's Land in Excess of a Typical Lot: Value of residential displacement real property on a larger lot than typical site for the neighborhood $200,000 Minus the value of displacement property's land in excess of a typical site & not in comparable housing 15,000 Adjusted value of the displacement real property less carve out of the excess land 185,000 List Price of the Selected Comparable Housing 210,000 Minus the adjusted value of the displacement real property resulting from carve out of the excess land 185,000 Replacement Housing Payment Price Differential Payment Eligibility 25,000 (Example B) RHP Computation for Carve Out of a Major Exterior Attribute of Displacement Property's Inground Swimming Pool: Value of residential displacement real property with an inground swimming pool $250,000 Minus the contributory value of displacement property's inground swimming pool not in the comparable 14,000 Adjusted value of the displacement real property less carve out of the inground swimming pool 236,000 List Price of the Selected Comparable Housing 245,000 Minus the adjusted value of the displacement real property less the inground swimming pool carve out 236,000 Replacement Housing Payment Price Differential Payment Eligibility 11,000 Section 24.403(a)(3) Additional rules governing replacement housing payments. The economic value to the owner of a remainder may be as an actual buildable lot for sale to an adjoining property owner, or for some other purpose for which the agency attributes an economic value to the owner. When allowed for under applicable law, a single offer that includes the value of the remainder property should be made. The purpose of making an offer to purchase the remainder is to allow for an RHP calculation and benefit determination that includes the value of the remainder as part of the compensation offered to the owner for acquisition, whether the property owner sells the remainder or choses to retain it. Should a property owner decide to retain a remainder then he would be responsible for the value of the remainder when he purchases his replacement property. Example B of this section shows the effect that a property owner's decision to retain a remainder or a State's inability to, or election not to, make an offer to purchase the remainder would have on the calculation of benefits. The price differential portion of the replacement housing payment would be the difference between the comparable replacement dwelling and the agency's highest written acquisition offer. In the following examples, the before value of the typical residential dwelling and lot is $180,000; the remnant is valued at $15,000, and the part needed for the project (including the dwelling) is valued at $165,000, the comparable replacement dwelling is valued at $200,000. The price differential would be calculated as follows in the two scenarios: (Example A) Agency Offers To Acquire Remainder Comparable Replacement Dwelling $200,000 Before value of parcel 180,000 Minus: Remainder Value 15,000 Acquisition of Part Needed 165,000 Agency's highest written offer 180,000 Price Differential Payment Eligibility 20,000 (Example B) Agency Does Not Offer To Acquire Remainder Comparable Replacement Dwelling $200,000 Before value of parcel 180,000 Minus: Remainder Value (owner retains) 15,000 Acquisition of Part Needed 165,000 Agency's highest written offer for part needed 165,000 Price Differential Payment Eligibility 35,000 Section 24.404 Replacement housing of last resort. Section 24.404(b) Basic rights of persons to be displaced. Section 24.404(b) affirms the right of a 90-day homeowner-occupant, who is eligible for a replacement housing payment under &#xA7; 24.401, to a reasonable opportunity to purchase a comparable replacement dwelling. However, it should be read in conjunction with the definition of &#x201C;owner of a dwelling&#x201D; at &#xA7; 24.2(a). The agency is not required to provide persons owning only a fractional interest in the displacement dwelling a greater level of assistance to purchase a replacement dwelling than the agency would be required to provide such persons if they owned fee simple title to the displacement dwelling. If such assistance is not sufficient to buy a replacement dwelling, the agency may provide additional purchase assistance or rental assistance. Section 24.404(c) Methods of providing comparable replacement housing. Section 24.404(c) emphasizes the use of cost effective means of providing comparable replacement housing. The term &#x201C;reasonable cost&#x201D; is used to highlight the fact that while innovative means to provide housing are encouraged, they should be cost-effective. Section 24.404(c)(2) permits the use of last resort housing, in special cases, which may involve variations from the usual methods of obtaining comparability. However, such variation should never result in a lowering of housing standards, nor should it ever result in a lower quality of living style for the displaced person. The physical characteristics of the comparable replacement dwelling may be dissimilar to those of the displacement dwelling, but they may never be inferior. One example might be the use of a new mobile home to replace a very substandard conventional dwelling in an area where comparable conventional dwellings are not available. Another example could be the use of a superior, but smaller, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling to replace a large, old substandard dwelling, only a portion of which is being used as living quarters by the occupants and no other large comparable dwellings are available in the area. Appendix B to Part 24-Statistical Report Form This appendix sets forth the statistical information collected from Federal agencies in accordance with &#xA7; 24.9(c). General 1. Report coverage. This report covers all relocation and real property acquisition activities under a Federal or a federally assisted project or program subject to the provisions of the Uniform Act. If the exact numbers are not easily available, an agency may provide what it believes to be a reasonable estimate. 2. Report period. Activities shall be reported on a Federal fiscal year basis, i.e., October 1 through September 30. 3. Where and when to submit report. Submit a copy of this report to the Lead Agency as soon as possible after September 30, but not later than November 15. Lead Agency address: Federal Highway Administration, Office of Real Estate Services (HEPR), 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590. 4. How to report relocation payments. The full amount of a relocation payment shall be reported as if disbursed in the year during which the claim was approved, regardless of whether the payment is to be paid in installments. 5. How to report dollar amounts. Round off all money entries in parts of this section A, B, and C to the nearest dollar. 6. Regulatory references. The references in parts A, B, C, and D of this section indicate the subpart of this part pertaining to the requested information. Part A. Real Property Acquisition Under the Uniform Act Line 1. Report all parcels acquired during the report year where title or possession was vested in the agency during the reporting period. The parcel count reported should relate to ownerships and not to the number of parcels of different property interests (such as fee, perpetual easement, temporary easement, etc.) that may have been part of an acquisition from one owner. For example, an acquisition from a property that includes a fee simple parcel, a perpetual easement parcel, and a temporary easement parcel should be reported as 1 parcel not 3 parcels. (Include parcels acquired without Federal financial assistance, if there was or will be Federal financial assistance in other phases of the project or program.) Line 2. Report the number of parcels reported on Line 1 that were acquired by condemnation. Include those parcels where compensation for the property was paid, deposited in court, or otherwise made available to a property owner pursuant to applicable law in order to vest title or possession in the agency through condemnation authority. Line 3. Report the number of parcels in Line 1 acquired through administrative settlement where the purchase price for the property exceeded the amount offered as just compensation and efforts to negotiate an agreement at that amount have failed. Line 4. Report the total of the amounts paid, deposited in court, or otherwise made available to a property owner pursuant to applicable law in order to vest title or possession in the agency in Line 1. Part B. Residential Relocation Under the Uniform Act Line 5. Report the number of households who were permanently displaced during the fiscal year by project or program activities and moved to their replacement dwelling. The term &#x201C;households&#x201D; includes all families and individuals. A family is reported as &#x201C;one&#x201D; household, not by the number of people in the family unit. Line 6. Report the total amount paid for residential moving expenses (actual expense and fixed payment). Line 7. Report the total amount paid for residential replacement housing payments including payments for replacement housing of last resort provided pursuant to &#xA7; 24.404. Line 8. Report the number of households in Line 5 who were permanently displaced during the fiscal year by project or program activities and moved to their replacement dwelling as part of last resort housing assistance. Line 9. Report the number of tenant households in Line 5 who were permanently displaced during the fiscal year by project or program activities, and who purchased and moved to their replacement dwelling using a down payment assistance payment under this part. Line 10. Report the total sum costs of residential relocation expenses and payments (excluding agency administrative expenses) in Lines 6 and 7. Part C. Nonresidential Relocation Under the Uniform Act Line 11. Report the number of businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms who were permanently displaced during the fiscal year by project or program activities and moved to their replacement location. This includes businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms, that upon displacement, discontinued operations. Line 12. Report the total amount paid for nonresidential moving expenses (actual expense and fixed payment.) Line 13. Report the total amount paid for nonresidential reestablishment expenses. Line 14. Report the total sum costs of nonresidential relocation expenses and payments (excluding agency administrative expenses) in Lines 12 and 13. Part D. Relocation Appeals Line 15. Report the total number of relocation appeals filed during the fiscal year by aggrieved persons (residential and nonresidential).