PART 1180-RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES Authority: 5 U.S.C. 553 and 559; 11 U.S.C. 1172; 49 U.S.C. 1321, 10502, 11323-11325. Subpart A-General Acquisition Procedures Source: 47 FR 9844, Mar. 8, 1982, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 49592, Nov. 1, 1982. &#xA7; 1180.0 Scope and purpose. (a) General. The regulations in this subpart set out the information to be filed and the procedures to be followed in control, merger, acquisition, lease, trackage rights, and any other consolidation transaction involving more than one railroad that is initiated under 49 U.S.C. 11323. Section 1180.2 separates these transactions into four types: Major, significant, minor, and exempt. The informational requirements for these types of transactions differ. Before an application is filed, the designation of type of transaction may be clarified or certain of the information required may be waived upon petition to the Board. This procedure is explained in &#xA7; 1180.4. The required contents of an application are set out in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1180.6 (general information supporting the transaction), 1180.7 (competitive and market information), 1180.8 (operational information), 1180.9 (financial data), 1180.10 (service assurance plans), and 1180.11 (transnational and other informational requirements). A major application must contain the information required in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1180.6(a), 1180.6(b), 1180.7(a), 1180.7(b), 1180.8(a), 1180.8(b), 1180.9, 1180.10, and 1180.11. A significant application must contain the information required in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1180.6(a), 1180.6(c), 1180.7(a), 1180.7(c), and 1180.8(b). A minor application must contain the information required in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1180.6(a) and 1180.8(c). Procedures (including time limits, filing requirements, participation requirements, and other matters) are contained in &#xA7; 1180.4. All applications must comply with the Board's Rules of General Applicability, 49 CFR parts 1100 through 1129, unless otherwise specified. These regulations may be cited as the Railroad Consolidation Procedures. (b) Waiver. We will waive application of the regulations contained in this subpart for a consolidation involving The Kansas City Southern Railway Company and another Class I railroad and instead will apply the regulations in this subpart A in effect before July 11, 2001 and contained in the 49 CFR, Parts 1000 to 1199, edition revised as of October 1, 2000, unless we are shown why such a waiver should not be allowed. Interested parties must file any objections to this waiver within 10 days after the applicants' prefiling notification (see 49 CFR &#xA7; 1180.4(b)(1)). [66 FR 32583, June 15, 2001] &#xA7; 1180.1 General policy statement for merger or control of at least two Class I railroads. (a) General. To meet the needs of the public and the national defense, the Surface Transportation Board (Board) seeks to ensure balanced and sustainable competition in the railroad industry. The Board recognizes that the railroad industry (including Class II and III carriers) is a network of competing and complementary components, which in turn is part of a broader transportation infrastructure that also embraces the nation's highways, waterways, ports, and airports. The Board welcomes private-sector initiatives that enhance the capabilities and the competitiveness of this transportation infrastructure. Although mergers of Class I railroads may advance our nation's economic growth and competitiveness through the provision of more efficient and responsive transportation, the Board does not favor consolidations that reduce the transportation alternatives available to shippers unless there are substantial and demonstrable public benefits to the transaction that cannot otherwise be achieved. Such public benefits include improved service, enhanced competition, and greater economic efficiency. The Board also will look with disfavor on consolidations under which the controlling entity does not assume full responsibility for carrying out the controlled carrier's common carrier obligation to provide adequate service upon reasonable demand. (b) Consolidation criteria. The Board's consideration of the merger or control of at least two Class I railroads is governed by the public interest criteria prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 11324 and the rail transportation policy set forth in 49 U.S.C. 10101. In determining the public interest, the Board must consider the various goals of effective competition, carrier safety and efficiency, adequate service for shippers, environmental safeguards, and fair working conditions for employees. The Board must ensure that any approved transaction would promote a competitive, efficient, and reliable national rail system. (c) Public interest considerations. The Board believes that mergers serve the public interest only when substantial and demonstrable gains in important public benefits-such as improved service and safety, enhanced competition, and greater economic efficiency-outweigh any anticompetitive effects, potential service disruptions, or other merger-related harms. Although further consolidation of the few remaining Class I carriers could result in efficiency gains and improved service, the Board believes additional consolidation in the industry is also likely to result in a number of anticompetitive effects, such as loss of geographic competition, that are increasingly difficult to remedy directly or proportionately. Additional consolidations could also result in service disruptions during the system integration period. Accordingly, to assure a balance in favor of the public interest, merger applications should include provisions for enhanced competition, and, where both carriers are financially sound, the Board is prepared to use its conditioning authority as necessary under 49 U.S.C. 11324(c) to preserve and/or enhance competition. In addition, when evaluating the public interest, the Board will consider whether the benefits claimed by applicants could be realized by means other than the proposed consolidation. The Board believes that other private-sector initiatives, such as joint marketing agreements and interline partnerships, can produce many of the efficiencies of a merger while risking less potential harm to the public. (1) Potential benefits. By eliminating transaction cost barriers between firms, increasing the productivity of investment, and enabling carriers to lower costs through economies of scale, scope, and density, mergers can generate important public benefits such as improved service, more competition, and greater economic efficiency. A merger can strengthen a carrier's finances and operations. To the extent that a merged carrier continues to operate in a competitive environment, its new efficiencies would be shared with shippers and consumers. Both the public and the consolidated carrier can benefit if the carrier is able to increase its marketing opportunities and provide better service. A merger transaction can also improve existing competition or provide new competitive opportunities, and such enhanced competition will be given substantial weight in our analysis. Applicants shall make a good faith effort to calculate the net public benefits their proposed merger would generate, and the Board will carefully evaluate such evidence. To ensure that applicants have no incentive to exaggerate these projected benefits to the public, the Board expects applicants to propose additional measures that the Board might take if the anticipated public benefits fail to materialize in a timely manner. In this regard, the Board recognizes, however, that applicants require the flexibility to adapt to changing marketplace or other circumstances and that it is inevitable that an approved merger may not necessarily be implemented in precisely the manner anticipated in the application. Applicants will be held accountable, however, if they do not act reasonably in light of changing circumstances to achieve promised merger benefits. (2) Potential harm. The Board recognizes that consolidation can impose costs as well as benefits. It can reduce competition both directly and indirectly in particular markets, including product markets and geographic markets. Consolidation can also threaten essential services and the reliability of the rail network. In analyzing these impacts we must consider, but are not limited by, the policies embodied in the antitrust laws. (i) Reduction of competition. Although in specific markets railroads operate in a highly competitive environment with vigorous intermodal competition from motor and water carriers, mergers can deprive shippers of effective options. Intramodal competition can be reduced when two carriers serving the same origins or destinations merge. Competition arising from shippers' build-out, transloading, plant siting, and production shifting choices can be eliminated or reduced when two railroads serving overlapping areas merge. Competition in product and geographic markets can also be eliminated or reduced by mergers, including end-to-end mergers. Any railroad combination entails a risk that the merged carrier would acquire and exploit increased market power. Applicants shall propose remedies to mitigate and offset competitive harms. Applicants shall also explain how they would at a minimum preserve competitive and market options such as those involving the use of major existing gateways, build-outs or build-ins, and the opportunity to enter into contracts for one segment of a movement as a means of gaining the right separately to pursue rate relief for the remainder of the movement. (ii) Harm to essential services. The Board must ensure that essential freight, passenger, and commuter rail services are preserved wherever feasible. An existing service is essential if there is sufficient public need for the service and adequate alternative transportation is not available. The Board's focus is on the ability of the nation's transportation infrastructure to continue to provide and support essential services. Mergers should strengthen, not undermine, the ability of the rail network to advance the nation's economic growth and competitiveness, both domestically and internationally. The Board will consider whether projected shifts in traffic patterns could undermine the ability of the various network links (including Class II and Class III rail carriers and ports) to sustain essential services. (iii) Transitional service problems. Experience shows that significant service problems can arise during the transitional period when merging firms integrate their operations, even after applicants take extraordinary steps to avoid those disruptions. Because service disruptions harm the public, the Board, in its determination of the public interest, will weigh the likelihood of transitional service problems. In addition, under paragraph (h) of this section, the Board will require applicants to provide a detailed service assurance plan. Applicants also should explain how they would cooperate with other carriers in overcoming serious service disruptions on their lines during the transitional period and afterwards. (iv) Enhanced competition. To offset harms that would not otherwise be mitigated, applicants should explain how the transaction and conditions they propose would enhance competition. (d) Conditions. The Board has broad authority under 49 U.S.C. 11324(c) to impose conditions on consolidations, including requiring divestiture of parallel tracks or the granting of trackage rights and access to other facilities. The Board will condition the approval of Class I combinations to mitigate or offset harm to the public interest, and will carefully consider conditions proposed by applicants in this regard. The Board may impose conditions that are operationally feasible and produce net public benefits, but will not impose conditions that undermine or defeat beneficial transactions by creating unreasonable operating, financial, or other problems for the combined carrier. Conditions are generally not appropriate to compensate parties who may be disadvantaged by increased competition. The Board anticipates that mergers of Class I carriers would likely create some anticompetitive effects that would be difficult to mitigate through appropriate conditions, and that transitional service disruptions might temporarily negate any shipper benefits. To offset such potential harms and improve the prospect that their proposal would be found to be in the public interest, applicants should propose conditions that would not simply preserve but also enhance competition. The Board seeks to enhance competition in ways that strengthen and sustain the rail network as a whole (including that portion of the network operated by Class II and III carriers). (e) Employee protection. The Board is required to provide a fair arrangement for the protection of the rail employees of applicants who are affected by a consolidation. The Board supports early notice and consultation between management and the various unions, leading to negotiated implementing agreements, which the Board strongly favors. Otherwise, the Board respects the sanctity of collective bargaining agreements and will look with extreme disfavor on overrides of collective bargaining agreements except to the very limited extent necessary to carry out an approved transaction. The Board will review negotiated agreements to ensure fair and equitable treatment of all affected employees. Absent a negotiated agreement, the Board will provide for protection at the level mandated by law (49 U.S.C. 11326(a)), and if unusual circumstances are shown, more stringent protection will be provided to ensure that employees have a fair and equitable arrangement. (f) Environment and safety. (1) The National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. (NEPA), requires the Board to take environmental considerations into account in railroad consolidation cases. To meet its responsibilities under NEPA and related environmental laws, the Board must consider significant potential beneficial and adverse environmental impacts in deciding whether to approve a transaction as proposed, deny the proposal, or approve it with conditions, including appropriate environmental mitigation conditions addressing concerns raised by the parties, including federal, state, and local government entities. The Board's Office of Environmental Analysis (OEA) ensures that the agency meets its responsibilities under NEPA and the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 1105 by providing the Board with an independent environmental review of merger proposals. In preparing the necessary environmental documentation, OEA focuses on the potential environmental impacts resulting from merger-related changes in activity levels on existing rail lines and rail facilities. The Board generally will mitigate only those impacts that would result directly from an approved transaction, and will not require mitigation for existing conditions and existing railroad operations. (2) During the environmental review process, railroad applicants have negotiated agreements with affected communities, including groups of communities and other entities such as state and local agencies. The Board encourages voluntary agreements of this nature because they can be extremely helpful and effective in addressing specific local and regional environmental and safety concerns, including the sharing of costs associated with mitigating merger-related environmental impacts. Generally, these privately negotiated solutions between an applicant railroad and some or all of the communities along particular rail corridors or other appropriate entities are more effective, and in some cases more far-reaching, than any environmental mitigation options the Board could impose unilaterally. Therefore, when such agreements are submitted to it, the Board generally will impose these negotiated agreements as conditions to approved mergers, and these agreements generally will substitute for specific local and site-specific environmental mitigation for a community that otherwise would be imposed. Moreover, to encourage and give effect to negotiated solutions whenever possible, the opportunity to negotiate agreements will remain available throughout the oversight process to replace local and site-specific environmental mitigation imposed by the agency. The Board will require compliance with the terms of all negotiated agreements submitted to it during oversight by imposing appropriate environmental conditions to replace the local and site-specific mitigation previously imposed. (3) Applicants will be required to work with the Federal Railroad Administration, on a case-by-case basis, to formulate Safety Integration Plans (SIPs) to ensure that safe operations are maintained throughout the merger implementation process. As part of the environmental review process, applicants will be required to submit: (i) A SIP and (ii) Evidence about potentially blocked grade crossings as a result of merger-related traffic increases or operational changes. (g) Oversight. As a condition to its approval of any major transaction, the Board will establish a formal oversight process. For at least the first 5 years following approval, applicants will be required to present evidence to the Board, on no less than an annual basis, to show that the merger conditions imposed by the Board are working as intended, that the applicants are adhering to the various representations they made on the record during the course of their merger proceeding, that no unforeseen harms have arisen that would require the Board to alter existing merger conditions or impose new ones, and that the merger benefit projections accepted by the Board are being realized in a timely fashion. Parties will be given the opportunity to comment on applicants' submissions, and applicants will be given the opportunity to reply to the parties' comments. During the oversight period, the Board will retain jurisdiction to impose any additional conditions it determines are necessary to remedy or offset adverse consequences of the underlying transaction. (h) Service assurance and operational monitoring. (1) The quality of service is of vital importance. Accordingly, applicants must file, with their initial application and operating plan, a Service Assurance Plan identifying the precise steps they would take to ensure adequate service and to provide for improved service. This plan must include the specific information set forth at &#xA7; 1180.10 on how shippers, connecting railroads (including Class II and III carriers), and ports across the new system would be affected and benefitted by the proposed consolidation. As part of this plan, applicants will be required to provide service benchmarks, describe the extent to which they have entered into any arrangements with shippers and shipper groups to compensate for service failures, and establish contingency plans that would be available to mitigate any unanticipated service disruption. (2) The Board will conduct significant post-approval operational monitoring to help ensure that service levels after a merger are reasonable and adequate. (3) The Board also will require applicants to establish problem resolution teams and specific procedures for problem resolution to ensure that any unanticipated post-merger problems related to service or any other transportation matters, including claims, are promptly addressed. These teams should include representatives of all appropriate employee categories. Also, the Board envisions the establishment of a Service Council made up of shippers, railroads, passenger service representatives, ports, rail labor, and other interested parties to provide an ongoing forum for the discussion of implementation issues. (4) Loss and damage claims handling. Shippers or shortlines who have freight claims under 49 CFR part 1005 during merger implementation shall file such claims, in writing or electronically, with the merged carrier. The claimant shall provide supporting documentation regarding the effect on the claimant, and the specific damages (in a determinable amount) incurred. Pursuant to 49 CFR part 1005, the merged carrier shall acknowledge each claim within 30 days and successively number each claim. Within 120 days of carrier receipt of the claim, the merged carrier shall respond to each claim by paying, declining, or offering a compromise settlement. The Board will take notice of these claims and their disposition as a matter of oversight. During each annual oversight period, the merged carrier shall report on claims received, their type, and their disposition for each quarterly period covered by oversight. While shippers and shortlines may also contract with the applicants for specific remedies with respect to claims, final adjudication of contract issues as well as unresolved claims will remain a matter for the courts. (5) Service failure claims. Applicants must suggest a protocol for handling claims related to failure to provide reasonable service due to merger implementation problems. Commitments to submit all such claims to arbitration will be favored. (6) Alternative rail service. Where shippers and connecting railroads require relief from extended periods of inadequate service, the procedures at 49 CFR parts 1146 and 1147 are available for the Board to review the documented service levels and to consider shipper proposals for alternative service relief when other avenues of relief have already been explored with the merged carrier in an effort to restore adequate service. (i) Cumulative impacts and crossover effects. Because there are so few remaining Class I carriers and the railroad industry constitutes a network of competing and complementary components, the Board cannot evaluate the merits of a major transaction in isolation. The Board must also consider the cumulative impacts and crossover effects likely to occur as rival carriers react to the proposed combination. The Board expects applicants to explain how additional Class I mergers would affect the eventual structure of the industry and the public interest. Applicants should generally discuss the likely impact of such future mergers on the anticipated public benefits of their own merger proposal. Applicants will be expected to discuss whether and how the type or extent of any conditions imposed on their proposed merger would have to be altered, or any new conditions imposed, should we approve any future consolidation(s). (j) Inclusion of other carriers. The Board will consider requiring inclusion of another carrier as a condition to approval only where there is no other reasonable alternative for providing essential services, the facilities fit operationally into the new system, and inclusion can be accomplished without endangering the operational or financial success of the new company. (k) Transnational and other informational issues. (1) All applicants must submit &#x201C;full system&#x201D; competitive analyses and operating plans-incorporating any operations in Canada or Mexico-from which we can determine the competitive, service, employee, safety, and environmental impacts of the prospective operations within the United States, and explain how cooperation with the Federal Railroad Administration would be maintained to address potential impacts on operations within the United States of operations or events elsewhere on their systems. All applicants must further provide information concerning any restrictions or preferences under foreign or domestic law and policies that could affect their commercial decisions. Applicants must also address how any ownership restrictions might affect our public interest assessment. (2) The Board will consult with relevant officials, as appropriate, to ensure that any conditions it imposes on an approved transaction are consistent with the North American Free Trade Agreement and other pertinent international agreements to which the United States is a party. In addition, the Board will cooperate with those Canadian and Mexican agencies charged with approval and oversight of a proposed transnational railroad combination. (l) National defense. Rail mergers must not detract from the ability of the United States military to rely on rail transportation to meet the nation's defense needs. Applicants must discuss and assess the national defense ramifications of their proposed merger. (m) Public participation. To ensure a fully developed record on the effects of a proposed railroad consolidation, the Board encourages public participation from federal, state, and local government departments and agencies; affected shippers, carriers, and rail labor; and other interested parties. [66 FR 32583, June 15, 2001, as amended at 83 FR 15080, Apr. 9, 2018] &#xA7; 1180.2 Types of transactions. Transactions proposed under 49 U.S.C. 11323 involving more than one common carrier by railroad are of four types: Major, significant, minor, and exempt. (a) A major transaction is a control or merger involving two or more class I railroads. (b) A significant transaction is a transaction not involving the control or merger of two or more class I railroads that is of regional or national transportation significance as that phrase is used in 49 U.S.C. 11325(a)(2) and (c). A transaction not involving the control or merger of two or more class I railroads is not significant if a determination can be made either: (1) That the transaction clearly will not have any anticompetitive effects, or (2) That any anticompetitive effects of the transaction will clearly be outweighed by the transaction's anticipated contribution to the public interest in meeting significant transportation needs. A transaction not involving the control or merger of two or more class I railroads is significant if neither such determination can clearly be made. (c) A minor transaction is one which involves more than one railroad and which is not a major, significant, or exempt transaction. (d) A transaction is exempt if it is within one of the nine categories described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section. The Board has found that its prior review and approval of these transactions is not necessary to carry out the rail transportation policy of 49 U.S.C. 10101; and is of limited scope or unnecessary to protect shippers from market abuse. See 49 U.S.C. 10502. A notice must be filed to use one of these class exemptions. The procedures are set out in &#xA7; 1180.4(g). These class exemptions do not relieve a carrier of its statutory obligation to protect the interests of employees. See 49 U.S.C. 10502(g) and 11326. The enumeration of the following categories of transactions as exempt does not preclude a carrier from seeking an exemption of specific transactions not falling into these categories. (1) Acquisition of a line of railroad which would not constitute a major market extension where the Board has found that the public convenience and necessity permit abandonment. (2) Acquisition or continuance in control of a nonconnecting carrier or one of its lines where (i) the railroads would not connect with each other or any railroads in their corporate family, (ii) the acquisition or continuance in control is not part of a series of anticipated transactions that would connect the railroads with each other or any railroad in their corporate family, and (iii) the transaction does not involve a class I carrier. (3) Transactions within a corporate family that do not result in adverse changes in service levels, significant operational changes, or a change in the competitive balance with carriers outside the corporate family. (4) Renewal of leases and any other matters where the Board has previously authorized the transaction, and only an extension in time is involved. (5) Joint projects involving the relocation of a line of railroad which does not disrupt service to shippers. (6) Reincorporation in a different State. (7) Acquisition of trackage rights and renewal of trackage rights by a rail carrier over lines owned or operated by any other rail carrier or carriers that are: (i) based on written agreements, and (ii) not filed or sought in responsive applications in rail consolidation proceedings. (8) Acquisition of temporary trackage rights by a rail carrier over lines owned or operated by any other rail carrier or carriers that are: {i} based on written agreements, {ii} not filed or sought in responsive applications in rail consolidation proceedings, {iii} for overhead operations only, and {iv} scheduled to expire on a specific date not to exceed 1 year from the effective date of the exemption. If the operations contemplated by the exemption will not be concluded within the 1-year period, the parties may, prior to expiration of the period, file a request for a renewal of the temporary rights for an additional period of up to 1 year, including the reason(s) therefor. Rail carriers acquiring temporary trackage rights need not seek authority from the Board to discontinue the trackage rights as of the expiration date specified under 49 CFR 1180.4(g)(1)(ii). All transactions under this paragraph (d)(8) will be subject to applicable statutory labor protective conditions. (9) Acquisition of emergency temporary trackage rights by a rail carrier over lines owned or operated by any other rail carrier or carriers that are: {i} Based on written agreements, {ii} not filed or sought in responsive applications in rail consolidation proceedings, {iii} for overhead operations only, {iv} scheduled to expire on a specific date not to exceed three months from the effective date of the exemption, and {v} sought in response to an unforeseen track outage and expected to last more than seven days where there is no reasonable alternative to maintain pre-outage levels of service. If during the exemption period, the outage is resolved and use of the temporary emergency trackage rights ceases to be necessary to maintain service at pre-outage levels, the rail carrier must file a notice stating that the outage has been resolved and that use of the trackage rights has ceased and identifying the date on which use of the trackage rights ceased. Such a notice should be filed within 5 business days of the date on which use of the trackage rights ceased. The emergency temporary trackage rights authority expires upon the official filing date of the notice. If the operations contemplated by the exemption will not be concluded within the initial exemption period, the rail carrier may, prior to expiration of the period, file a request for a renewal of the temporary rights for an additional period of up to 3 months, including the reason(s) therefor. Rail carriers acquiring temporary trackage rights need not seek authority from the Board to discontinue the trackage rights as of the expiration date specified under &#xA7; 1180.4(g)(1)(ii). All transactions under this paragraph (d)(9) will be subject to applicable statutory labor protective conditions. [47 FR 9844, Mar. 8, 1982. Redesignated at 47 FR 49592, Nov. 1, 1982, and amended at 50 FR 15751, Apr. 22, 1985; 51 FR 24669, July 8, 1986; 58 FR 63104, Nov. 30, 1993; 62 FR 9716, Mar. 4, 1997; 68 FR 28140, May 23, 2003; 86 FR 68930, Dec. 6, 2021] &#xA7; 1180.3 Definitions. (a) Applicant. The term applicant means the parties initiating a transaction, but does not include a wholly owned direct or indirect subsidiary of an applicant if that subsidiary is not a rail carrier. Parties who are considered applicants, but for whom the information normally required of an applicant need not be submitted, are: (1) In minor trackage rights applications, the transferor and (2) In responsive applications, a primary applicant. (b) Applicant carriers. The term applicant carriers means: any applicant that is a rail carrier; any rail carrier operating in the United States, Canada, and/or Mexico in which an applicant holds a controlling interest; and all other rail carriers involved in the transaction. Because the service provided by these commonly controlled carriers can be an important competitive aspect of the transactions that we approve, applicant carriers are subject to the full range of our conditioning power. Carriers that are involved in an application only by virtue of an existing trackage rights agreement with applicants are not applicant carriers. (c) Major market extension. A major market extension is a transaction which may significantly increase competition by extending service into a new market, expanding service in a currently served market when another carrier concurrently contracts its service to that market as part of the same transaction, or providing significantly more efficient and effective competitive service to a market presently being served. Criteria which can be used to determine if a railroad is proposing to provide a more competitive service to a currently served area include: (1) Creating a shorter route; (2) providing enhanced service capabilities (speed is not the only factor); (3) entering an interchange or market generating more than 5,000 cars per year or 5 percent of applicant's traffic; (4) filing the application as a condition of relief to a pending proceeding; and (5) permitting a carrier to become more competitive (extending its length of haul) See. Burlington Northern, Inc.-Control & Merger-St. L., 354 I.C.C. 616, 617 (1978). (d) Petition for clarification. A request that the Board clarify the applicability of any part of these regulations to a particular situation or explain the type of material needed to comply with these regulations. (e) Petition for waiver. A request that the Board either dispense with material required by the regulations, or accept material in place of that required by these regulations. (f) Primary application. A proposal for approval filed under 49 U.S.C. 11323 which begins a new proceeding and is not proposed either as a condition to or as an alternative to Board approval of another pending application. (g) Railroad. Any common carrier by railroad as defined in 49 U.S.C. 10102(5)-(6). (h) Responsive applications. Applications filed in response to a primary application are those seeking affirmative relief either as a condition to or in lieu of the approval of the primary application. Responsive applications include inconsistent applications, inclusion applications, and any other affirmative relief that requires an application, petition, notice, or any other filing to be submitted to the Board (such as trackage rights, purchases, constructions, operation, pooling, terminal operations, abandonments, and other types of proceedings not otherwise covered). For fees covering inconsistent applications or responsive applications not otherwise covered in the Board's fee schedule, see 49 CFR 1002.2(f) (38)-(41) and 1180.4(d)(2). The fees for all other responsive applications are set forth in 49 CFR 1002.2(f). (i) Transferee. The transferee is: (1) The acquiring corporation in a control proceeding, (2) The surviving corporation in a merger, (3) The resulting corporation in a consolidation, (4) The leasee in a lease, (5) The purchaser in an acquisition, and (6) The grantee of trackage rights in a trackage rights proceeding. (j) Transferor. The transferor is: (1) The corporation acquired in a control proceeding, (2) The merging corporation in a merger, (3) All corporations to be consolidated in a consolidation, (4) The lessor in a lease, (5) The seller in an acquisition, and (6) The grantor of trackage rights in a trackage rights proceeding. [47 FR 9844, Mar. 8, 1982. Redesignated at 47 FR 49592, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 62 FR 9716, Mar. 4, 1997; 62 FR 28376, May 23, 1997; 66 FR 32586, June 15, 2001; 81 FR 8856, Feb. 23, 2016] &#xA7; 1180.4 Procedures. (a) General. (1) The original and 25 copies of all documents shall be filed in major proceedings. The original and 10 copies shall be filed in significant and minor proceedings. (2) Each party to a proceeding shall choose a unique acronym of four letters or less for itself. It shall number each document filed in the proceeding consecutively, prefixed by its acronym. (3) Any document filed with the Board (including applications, pleadings, etc.) shall be promptly furnished to interested persons on request, unless subject to a protective order. At any time, the Board may require the submission of additional copies of any document previously filed by any party to the proceeding. (b) Prefiling notification. (1) Between 3 to 6 months prior to the proposed filing of an application in a major transaction, and 2 to 4 months prior to the proposed filing of an application in a significant transaction, applicant shall file a notice with the Board. The notice shall: (i) Briefly describe the transaction, (ii) Indicate the year to be used for the impact analysis, (iii) Indicate the approximate filing date of the application, and (iv) Indicate why the transaction is major or significant. (2) The Board will publish a notice in the Federal Register within 30 days of receipt of the applicant's notice. The publication shall contain: (i) A brief description of the transaction, (ii) The year to be used for the impact analysis, (iii) The approximate filing date, (iv) A determination that the transaction is major, significant, or minor, and (v) A statement of any additional information which must be filed with the application in order for the application to be considered complete. (3) A prefiling notice may be amended to indicate a change in the anticipated filing date. (4) Prefiling notification. When filing the notice of intent required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, applicants also must file: (i) A proposed procedural schedule. In any proceeding involving either a major transaction or a significant transaction, the Board will publish a Federal Register notice soliciting comments on the proposed procedural schedule, and will, after review of any comments filed in response, issue a procedural schedule governing the course of the proceeding. (ii) A proposed draft protective order. The Board will issue, in each proceeding in which such an order is requested, an appropriate protective order. (iii) A statement of waybill availability for major transactions. Applicants must indicate, as soon as practicable after the issuance of a protective order, that they will make their 100% traffic tapes available (subject to the terms of the protective order) to any interested party on written request. The applicants may require that, if the requesting party is itself a railroad, applicants will make their 100% traffic tapes available to that party only if it agrees, in its written request, to make its own 100% traffic tapes available to applicants (subject to the terms of the protective order) when it receives access to applicants' tapes. (iv) Applicants may also propose the use of a voting trust at this stage, or at a later stage, if that becomes necessary. In each proceeding involving a major transaction, applicants contemplating the use of a voting trust must explain how the trust would insulate them from an unlawful control violation and why their proposed use of the trust, in the context of their impending control application, would be consistent with the public interest. Following a brief period of public comment and replies by applicants, the Board will issue a decision determining whether applicants may establish and use the trust. (c) Application. (1) The fees for filing applications, petitions, or notices under these procedures are set forth in 49 CFR 1002.2. (2) Filing requirements. (i) The original of all applications shall be signed in ink by the applicant, if an individual; by all partners, if a partnership; and if a corporation, association, or other similar form of organization, by its president, or such other executive officer having knowledge of the matters therein contained and duly designated for that purpose by the applicant. Applications shall be made under oath and shall contain an appropriate certification (if a corporation, by its secretary) showing that the affiant is duly authorized to verify and file the application. Any person controlling an applicant shall also sign the application. (ii) The application shall be filed with Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC 20423-0001. (iii) Each copy of the application shall conform in all respects to the original and shall be complete in itself except that the signature in the copies may be stamped or typed and the notarial seal may be omitted. In like manner, where certified copies of documents are filed with the application, conformed copies thereof, showing certification in stamped or typewritten form, will be sufficient to accompany the additional copies of the application. (iv) All applications required to be filed with the Board or served on designated persons shall include all exhibits, except as otherwise specifically noted. Information from other documents may be incorporated by reference in the application. However, the documents must have been filed with the Board within three years prior to filing of the application, the information must be up to date, and applicant must be prepared to supply copies of this information to interested persons on specific request. (v) The applicant shall submit such additional information to support its application as the Board may require. (vi) Applicant shall file concurrently all directly related applications, e.g., those seeking authority to construct or abandon rail lines, obtain terminal operations, acquire trackage rights, etc. (vii) The application shall contain a certificate of service indicating that all persons designated in &#xA7; 1180.4(c)(5) have been served with a copy of the application. (3) In a major or significant transaction, and in all responsive applications, all of the direct testimony of applicants, in the form of verified statements, shall be filed and served with each application. (4) The application and all exhibits shall be considered part of the evidentiary record upon acceptance. Any portion of an application and exhibits will remain subject to motions to strike. However, no motion need be made to have the application and exhibits admitted to the evidentiary record. If a major or significant transaction is designated for oral hearing the presiding Administrative Law Judge shall have discretion in extraordinary circumstances to allow for the presentation of oral or written direct testimony not previously submitted with the application. (5) Service. The applicant shall serve a conformed copy of an application filed under these procedures by first-class mail upon: (i) The Governor (or Executive Officer), Public Service Commission, and the Department of Transportation of each State in which any part of the properties of the applicant carriers involved in the proposed transaction is situated; (ii) The Secretary of the United States Department of Transportation (Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590. (iii) The Attorney General of the United States; (iv) The Federal Trade Commission; and (v) In major or significant transactions, all persons requesting a copy after the prefiling notice is published in the Federal Register. (6) Application format. (i) The application shall be in the same sequence as the information is requested in these procedures, and shall be numbered to correspond to the numbering in the procedures. (ii) If any material required in the application would lend itself to being placed in an appendix, this should be done. The appendix and application shall be tabulated and cross-referenced in an index for ease in locating and referring to the information. The appendixes shall be in the same sequence as the information required by these procedures. If certain information required in the application is not applicable, provide an explanation. The application should be bound, and it may be bound in more than one volume. If an application is more than one volume, the cover of each volume should be in a different color. The pages in each volume shall begin with 1, and be sequentially numbered. (iii) The Board's Office of Proceedings will provide informal opinions and interpretations, which are not binding on the Board, regarding the format of or information to be included in the application. (iv) All filing, service, or other requirements of these procedures must be complied with when filing the application. Copies of the application filed with the Board shall be marked in red &#x201C;Railroad Consolidation Application&#x201D; on the transmittal envelope or package. (v) The application shall conform to the typographical specifications of &#xA7; 1104.2. (vi) The information and data required of any applicant may be consolidated with the information and data required of the affiliated applicant carriers. (7) Acceptance or rejection of an application. (i) The Board shall accept a complete application no later than 30 days after the application is filed with the Board by publishing a notice in the Federal Register. A complete application contains all information for all applicant carriers required by these procedures, except as modified by advance waiver. The publication shall indicate the applicable time limits for processing the application. (These are the time limits of 49 U.S.C. 11325(b) for a major transaction, 49 U.S.C. 11325(c) for a significant transaction, and 49 U.S.C. 11325(d) for a minor transaction.) (ii) The Board shall reject an incomplete application by serving a decision no later than 30 days after the application is filed with the Board. The decision shall explain specifically why the application was incomplete. A revised application may be submitted, incorporating portions of the prior application by reference. The resubmission or refiling of an application shall be considered a de novo filing for the purpose of computation of the time periods, provided that the resubmitted application is accepted as complete. (8) The application must present a prima facie case. Applicants can fail to meet their burden of proof and thus not present a prima facie case either by (i) disclosing facts that, even if construed in their most favorable light, are insufficient to support a finding that the proposal is consistent with the public interest, or by (ii) disclosing facts that affirmatively demonstrate that the proposal is not in the public interest. See Railroad Consolidation Procedures, 363 I.C.C. 767 (1980). (d) Responsive applications. (1) No responsive applications shall be permitted to minor transactions. (2) An inconsistent application will be classified as a major, significant, or minor transaction as provided in &#xA7; 1180.2(a) through (c). The fee for an inconsistent application will be the fee for the type of transaction involved. See 49 CFR 1002.2(f)(38) through (41). The fee for any other type of responsive application is the fee for the particular type of proceeding set forth in 49 CFR 1002.2(f). (3) Each responsive application filed and accepted for consideration will automatically be consolidated with the primary application for consideration. (e) Evidentiary proceeding. (1) The Board may order an oral public hearing, a hearing by written submissions, or another kind of evidentiary proceeding. The determination will generally be made on the basis of the needs indicated by the written comments. (2) The evidentiary proceeding will be completed: (i) Within 1 year after the primary application is accepted for a major transaction; (ii) Within 180 days for a significant transaction; and (iii) Within 105 days for a minor transaction. (3) A final decision on the primary application and on all consolidated cases will be issued: (i) Within 90 days after the conclusion of the evidentiary proceeding for a major transaction; (ii) Within 90 days for a significant transaction; and (iii) Within 45 days for a minor transaction. (4) The Secretary of Transportation may propose modifications to any transaction and shall have standing to appear before the Board in support of any such proposed modification. (f) Waiver or clarification. (1) Upon petition of a prospective applicant, the Board may waive or clarify a portion of these procedures. A petition to waive all of the procedures will not be entertained. (2) Except as otherwise provided in the procedural schedule adopted by the Board in any particular proceeding, petitions for waiver or clarification must be filed at least 45 days before the application is filed. (3) No replies to a petition for waiver will be permitted, except where a proceeding involving the same parties and a related transaction is pending before us. 1 When a reply is permitted, the petition shall be served by first-class mail on all parties to the pending proceedings, with a reply due within 10 days of service. Replies to a petition for clarification shall be permitted within 10 days of the petition's filing. 1 See Itel Corp.-Control-Green Bay and W. R. Co., 354 I.C.C. 232, 233 (1978). (4) A waiver or clarification granted to any applicant in a proceeding shall apply to any other party to the proceeding unless otherwise indicated. (5) All petitions for waiver or clarification must specify the sections for which waiver or clarification is sought and give the specific reasons why each waiver or clarification is necessary. (g) Notice of exemption. (1) To qualify for an exemption under &#xA7; 1180.2(d), a railroad must file a verified notice of the transaction with the Board. Except for verified notices filed under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(9), all verified notices under &#xA7; 1180.2(d) must be filed at least 30 days before the transaction is consummated, indicating the proposed consummation date. Verified notices filed under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(9) will become effective upon service of notice of the transaction by the Board. Before a verified notice is filed, the railroad shall obtain a docket number from the Board's Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings. (i) All notices filed under &#xA7; 1180.2(d) shall contain the information required in &#xA7; 1180.6(a)(1)(i) through (iii), (a)(5) and (6), and (a)(7)(ii), and indicate the level of labor protection to be imposed. (ii) Notices filed under &#xA7;&#xA7; 1180.2(d)(7), 1180.2(d)(8), or 1180.2(d)(9) shall also contain the following information: (A) The name of the tenant railroad; (B) The name of the landlord railroad; (C) A description of the trackage rights, including a description of the track. For notices under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(8) and (9), the notice must state that the trackage rights are overhead rights. For notices under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(7), the notice must state whether the trackage rights are local or overhead; (D) The date the trackage rights transaction is proposed to be consummated; (E) The date temporary trackage rights will expire, if applicable; and (F) For notices under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(9), a description of the situation resulting in the outage in sufficient detail to allow the Board to determine an emergency exits, including, to the extent possible, the nature of the event that caused the unforeseen outage, the location of the outage, the date that the emergency situation occurred, the date the outage was discovered, and the expected duration of the outage. (iii) Except for notices filed under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(9), the Board shall publish a notice of exemption in the Federal Register within 16 days of the filing of the notice. For notices filed under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(9), the Board shall serve a notice of exemption on parties of record within 5 days after the verified notice of exemption is filed and shall publish that notice in the Federal Register. The publication of notices under &#xA7; 1180.2(d) will indicate the labor protection required. (iv) If the notice contains false or misleading information that is brought to the Board's attention, the Board shall summarily revoke the exemption for that carrier and require divestiture. (v) The filing of a petition to revoke under 49 U.S.C. 10502(d) does not stay the effectiveness of an exemption. Except for notices filed under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(9), stay petitions must be filed at least 7 days before the exemption becomes effective. For notices filed under &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(9), stay petitions should be filed as soon as possible before the exemption becomes effective. (vi) Other exemptions that may be relevant to a proposal under this provision are codified at 49 CFR part 1150, subpart D, which governs transactions under 49 U.S.C. 10901. (2) Some transactions may be subject to environmental review pursuant to the Board's environmental rules at 49 CFR part 1105. (3)(i) Except for notices filed under &#xA7;&#xA7; 1180.2(d)(7), 1180.2(d)(8), or 1180.2(d)(9), the filing party must certify whether a proposed acquisition or operation of a rail line involves a provision or agreement that may limit future interchange with a third-party connecting carrier, whether by outright prohibition, per-car penalty, adjustment in the purchase price or rental, positive economic inducement, or other means (&#x201C;interchange commitment&#x201D;). If such a provision or agreement exists, the following additional information must be provided (the information in paragraphs (g)(4)(i)(B), (D), and (G) of this section may be filed with the Board under 49 CFR 1104.14(a) and will be kept confidential without need for the filing of an accompanying motion for a protective order under 49 CFR 1104.14(b)): (A) The existence of that provision or agreement and identification of the affected interchange points; and (B) A confidential, complete version of the document(s) containing or addressing that provision or agreement; (C) A list of shippers that currently use or have used the line in question within the last two years; (D) The aggregate number of carloads those shippers specified in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(C) of this section originated or terminated (confidential); (E) A certification that the filing party has provided notice of the proposed transaction and interchange commitment to the shippers identified in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(C) of this section; (F) A list of third party railroads that could physically interchange with the line sought to be acquired or leased; (G) An estimate of the difference between the sale or lease price with and without the interchange commitment (confidential); (H) A change in the case caption so that the existence of an interchange commitment is apparent from the case title. (ii) To obtain information about an interchange commitment for use in a proceeding before the Board, a shipper or other affected party may be granted access to the confidential documents filed pursuant to &#xA7; 1180.4(g)(4)(i) of this section by filing, and serving upon the petitioner, a &#x201C;Motion for Access to Confidential Documents,&#x201D; containing: (A) An explanation of the party's need for the information; and (B) An appropriate draft protective order and confidentiality undertaking(s) that will ensure that the documents are kept confidential. (iii) Deadlines. (A) Replies to a Motion for Access are due within 5 days after the motion is filed. (B) The Board will rule on a Motion for Access within 30 days after the motion is filed. (C) Parties must produce the relevant documents within 5 days of receipt of a Board approved, signed confidentiality agreement. (h) Official notice. In connection with any application or request for relief under these procedures, the Board may take official notice of any or all of the following information. These data will be presumed valid unless discredited by any party. A party relying on information to be noticed officially shall list the information. Upon request, the party shall make the official notice material available. Any party is free to challenge the relevance or application of any such data, or the weight that should be accorded it. (1) Annual STB Form R-1 Reports submitted by rail carriers. (2) Quarterly Commodity Statistics submitted by rail carriers. (3) STB Monthly Labor Statistics. (4) Quarterly Financial Statements of Rail Carriers. (5) All other reports submitted to the STB under oath. (6) Annual 1-percent Waybill Sample. (7) Federal Reserve Board Production Statistics. (8) AAR compilations of bad order ratios, equipment ownership and repair statistics, and freight car order figures. [47 FR 9844, Mar. 8, 1982] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 1180.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 1180.5 [Reserved] &#xA7; 1180.6 Supporting information. (a) All applications filed under 49 U.S.C. 11323 shall show in the title the names of the applicants and the nature of the proposed transaction. Beneath the title indicate the name, title, business address, and telephone number of the person(s) to whom correspondence with respect to the application should be addressed. The following information shall be included in all applications: (1) A description of the proposed transaction, including appropriate references to any supporting exhibits and statements contained in the application and discussing the following: (i) A brief summary of the proposed transaction, the name of applicants, their business address, telephone number, and the name of the counsel to whom questions regarding the transaction can be addressed. (ii) The proposed time schedule for consummation of the proposed transaction. (iii) The purpose sought to be accomplished by the proposed transaction, e.g., operating economies, eliminating excess facilities, improving service, or improving the financial viability of the applicants. (iv) The nature and amount of any new securities or other financial arrangements. (2) A detailed discussion of the public interest justifications in support of the application, indicating how the proposed transaction is consistent with the public interest, with particular regard to the relevant statutory criteria, including (i) The effect of the transaction on inter- and intramodal competition, including a description of the relevant markets (see &#xA7; 1180.7). Include a discussion of whether, as a result of the transaction, there is likely to be any lessening of competition, creation of a monopoly, or restraint of trade in freight surface transportation in any region of the United States. (ii) The financial consideration involved in the proposed transaction, and any economies, to be effected in operations, and any increase in traffic, revenues, earnings available for fixed charges, and net earnings, expected to result from the consummation of the proposed transaction. (iii) The effect of the increase, if any, of total fixed charges resulting from the proposed transaction. (iv) The effect of the proposed transaction upon the adequacy of transportation service to the public, as measured by the continuation of essential transportation services by applicants and other carriers. (v) The effect of the proposed transaction upon applicant carriers' employees (by class or craft), the geographic points where the impact will occur, the time frame of the impact (for at least 3 years after consolidation), and whether any employee protection agreements have been reached. (vi) The effect of inclusion (or lack of inclusion) in the proposed transaction of other railroads in the territory, under 49 U.S.C. 11324. (3) Any other supporting or descriptive statements applicants deem material. (4) An opinion of applicants' counsel that the transaction meets the requirements of the law and will be legally authorized and valid, if approved by the Board. This should include specific references to any pertinent provisions of applicants' bylaws or charter or articles of incorporation. 2 2 An opinion of counsel is not required in a control transaction for the party sought to be controlled, or in a responsive application for the party against whom relief is sought. (5) A list of the State(s) in which any part of the property of each applicant carrier is situated. (6) Map (exhibit 1). Submit a general or key map indicating clearly, in separate colors or otherwise, the line(s) of applicant carriers in their true relations to each other, short line connections, other rail lines in the territory, and the principal geographic points in the region traversed. If a geographically limited transaction is proposed, a map detailing the transaction should also be included. In addition to the map accompanying each application, 20 unbound copies of the map shall be filed with the Board. (7) Explanation of the transaction. (i) Describe the nature of the transaction (e.g., merger, control, purchase, trackage rights), the significant terms and conditions, and the consideration to be paid (monetary or otherwise). (ii) Agreement (exhibit 2). Submit a copy of any contract or other written instrument entered into, or proposed to be entered into, pertaining to the proposed transaction. 3 In addition, parties to exempt trackage rights agreements and renewal of agreements described at &#xA7; 1180.2(d)(7) must submit one copy of the executed agreement or renewal agreement with the notice of exemption, or within 10 days of the date that the agreement is executed, whichever is later. 3 A final signed contract or agreement need not be filed with a responsive application. However, a draft contract or agreement should be submitted containing the significant terms proposed. (iii) If a consolidation or merger is proposed, indicate: (A) The name of the company resulting from the consolidation or merger; (B) the State or territory under the laws of which the consolidated company is to be formed or the merged company is to file its certificate of amendment; (C) the capitalization proposed for the resulting company; and (D) the amount and character of capital stock and other securities to be issued. (iv) Court order (exhibit 3). If a trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative of the real party in interest is an applicant, submit a certified copy of the order, if any, of the court having jurisdiction, authorizing the contemplated action. (v) State whether the property involved in the proposed transaction includes all the property of the applicant carriers and, if not, describe what property is included in the proposed transaction. (vi) Briefly describe the principal routes and termini of the lines involved, the principal points of interchange on the routes, and the amount of main-line mileage and branch line mileage involved. (vii) State whether any governmental financial assistance is involved in the proposed transaction and, if so, the form, amount, source, and application of such financial assistance. (8) Environmental data (exhibit 4). Submit information and data with respect to environmental matters prepared in accordance with 49 CFR part 1105. In major and significant transaction, applicants shall, as soon as possible, and no later than the filing of a notice of intent, consult with the Board's Office of Environmental Analysis for the proper format of the environmental report. (b) In a major transaction, submit the following information: (1) Form 10-K (exhibit 6). Submit: The most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under 17 CFR 249.310 made within the year prior to the filing of the application by each applicant or by any entity that is in control of an applicant. These shall not be incorporated by reference, and shall be updated with any Form 10-K subsequently filed with the SEC during the pendency of the proceeding. (2) Form S-4 (exhibit 7). Submit: The most recent filing with the SEC under 17 CFR 239.25 made within the year prior to the filing of the application by each applicant or by any entity that is in control of an applicant. These shall not be incorporated by reference, and shall be updated with any Form S-4 subsequently filed with the SEC during the pendency of the proceeding. (3) Change in control (exhibit 8). If an applicant carrier submits an annual report Form R-1, indicate any change in ownership or control of that applicant carrier not indicated in its most recent Form R-1, and provide a list of the principal six officers of that applicant carrier and of any related applicant, and also of their majority-owned rail carrier subsidiaries. If any applicant carrier does not submit an annual report Form R-1, list all officers of that applicant carrier, and identify the person(s) or entity/entities in control of that applicant carrier and all owners of 10% or more of the equity of that applicant carrier. (4) Annual reports (exhibit 9). Submit: The two most recent annual reports to stockholders by each applicant, or by any entity that is in control of an applicant, made within 2 years of the date of filing of the application. These shall not be incorporated by reference, and shall be updated with any annual or quarterly report to stockholders issued during the pendency of the proceeding. (5) Issues (exhibit 10). Submit a discussion of any other issues relevant to the transaction. (6) Corporate chart (exhibit 11). Submit a corporate chart indicating all relationships between applicant carriers and all affiliates and subsidiaries and also companies controlling applicant carriers directly, indirectly or through another entity (with each chart indicating the percentage ownership of every company on the chart by any other company on the chart). For each company: include a statement indicating whether that company is a noncarrier or a carrier; and identify every officer and/or director of that company who is also an officer and/or director of any other company that is part of a different corporate family that includes a rail carrier. Such information may be referenced through notes to the chart. (7) If applicant is not a carrier, indicate (i) the type of business in which it is engaged, (ii) the length of time so engaged, and (iii) its present and prospective activities which have or may have a relation to transportation subject to 49 U.S.C. Subtitle IV. (8) Intercorporate or financial relationships. Indicate whether there are any direct or indirect intercorporate or financial relationships at the time the application is filed, not disclosed elsewhere in the application, through holding companies, ownership of securities, or otherwise, in which applicants or their affiliates own or control more than 5% of the stock of a non-affiliated carrier, including those relationships in which a group affiliated with applicants owns more than 5% of the stock of such a carrier. Indicate the nature and extent of any such relationships, and, if an applicant owns securities of a carrier subject to 49 U.S.C. Subtitle IV, provide the carrier's name, a description of securities, the par value of each class of securities held, and the applicant's percentage of total ownership. For purposes of this paragraph, &#x201C;affiliates&#x201D; has the same meaning as &#x201C;affiliated companies&#x201D; in Definition 5 of the Uniform System of Accounts (49 CFR part 1201, subpart A). (9) Employee impact exhibit. The effect of the proposed transaction upon applicant carriers' employees (by class or craft), the geographic points where the impacts would occur, the time frame of the impacts (for at least 3 years after consolidation), and whether any employee protection agreements have been reached. This information (except with respect to employee protection agreements) may be set forth in the following format: Effects on Applicant Carriers' Employees Current Location Jobs Classification Jobs Transferred to Jobs Abolished Jobs Created Year (10) Conditions to mitigate and offset merger-related harms. Applicants are expected to propose measures to mitigate and offset merger-related harms. These conditions should not simply preserve, but also enhance, competition. (i) Applicants must explain how they would preserve competitive options for shippers and for Class II and III rail carriers. At a minimum, applicants must explain how they would preserve the use of major existing gateways, the potential for build-outs or build-ins, and the opportunity to enter into contracts for one segment of a movement as a means of gaining the right separately to pursue rate relief for the remainder of the movement. (ii) Applicants should explain how the transaction and conditions they propose would enhance competition and improve service. (11) Calculating public benefits. Applicants must enumerate and, where possible, quantify the net public benefits their merger would generate (if approved). In making this estimate, applicants should identify the benefits that would arise from service improvements, enhanced competition, cost savings, and other merger-related public interest benefits, and should discuss whether the particular benefits they are relying upon could be achieved short of merger. Applicants must also identify, discuss, and, where possible, quantify the likely negative effects approval would entail, such as losses of competition, potential for service disruption, and other merger-related harms. In addition, applicants must suggest additional measures that the Board might take if it approves the application and the anticipated public benefits identified by applicants fail to materialize in a timely manner. (12) Downstream merger applications. (i) Applicants should anticipate whether additional Class I mergers are likely to be proposed in response to their own proposal and explain how, taken together, these mergers, if approved, could affect the eventual structure of the industry and the public interest. (ii) Applicants are expected to discuss whether any conditions imposed on an approval of their proposed merger would have to be altered, or any new conditions imposed, if the Board should approve additional future rail mergers. (13) Purpose of the proposed transaction. The purpose sought to be accomplished by the proposed transaction, such as improving service, enhancing competition, strengthening the nation's transportation infrastructure, creating operating economies, and ensuring financial viability. (c) In a significant transaction, submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(5), (b)(6), (b)(7), and (b)(8) of this section. [47 FR 9844, Mar. 8, 1982. Redesignated at 47 FR 49592, Nov. 1, 1982, and amended at 50 FR 15751, Apr. 22, 1985; 56 FR 41806, Aug. 3, 1991; 57 FR 28641, June 26, 1992; 58 FR 63104, Nov. 30, 1993; 62 FR 9717, Mar. 4, 1997; 64 FR 53269, Oct. 1, 1999; 66 FR 32587, June 15, 2001; 83 FR 15080, Apr. 9, 2018] &#xA7; 1180.7 Market analyses. (a) For major and significant transactions, applicants shall submit impact analyses (exhibit 12) describing the impacts of the proposed transaction-both adverse and beneficial-on inter-and intramodal competition with respect to freight surface transportation in the regions affected and on the provision of essential services by applicants and other carriers. An impact analysis should include underlying data, a study of the implications of those data, and a description of the resulting likely effects of the proposed transaction on the transportation alternatives that would be available to the shipping public. Each aspect of the analysis should specifically address significant impacts as they relate to the applicable statutory criteria (49 U.S.C. 11324(b) or (d)), essential services, and competition. Applicants must identify and address relevant markets and issues, and provide additional information as requested by the Board on markets and issues that warrant further study. Applicants (and any other party submitting analyses) must demonstrate both the relevance of the markets and issues analyzed and the validity of their methodology. All underlying assumptions must be clearly stated. Analyses should reflect the consolidated company's marketing plan and existing and potential competitive alternatives (inter- as well as intramodal). They can address: city pairs, interregional movements, movements through a point, or other factors; a particular commodity, group of commodities, or other commodity factor that would be significantly affected by the transaction; or other effects of the transaction (such as on a particular type of service offered). (b) For major transactions, applicants shall submit &#x201C;full system&#x201D; impact analyses (incorporating any operations in Canada or Mexico) from which they must demonstrate the impacts of the transaction-both adverse and beneficial-on competition within regions of the United States and this nation as a whole (including inter- and intramodal competition, product competition, and geographic competition) and the provision of essential services (including freight, passenger, and commuter) by applicants and other network links (including Class II and Class III rail carriers and ports). Applicants' impact analyses must at least provide the following types of information: (1) The anticipated effects of the transaction on traffic patterns, market concentrations, and/or transportation alternatives available to the shipping public. Consistent with &#xA7; 1180.6(b)(10), these would incorporate a detailed examination of any competition-enhancing aspects of the transaction and of the specific measures proposed by applicants to preserve existing levels of competition and essential services; (2) Actual and projected market shares of originated and terminated traffic by railroad for each major point on the combined system. Applicants may define points as individual stations or as larger areas (such as Bureau of Economic Analysis statistical areas or U.S. Department of Agriculture Crop Reporting Districts) as relevant and indicate the extent of switching access and availability of terminal belt railroads. Applicants should list points where the number of serving railroads would drop from two to one and from three to two, respectively, as a result of the proposed transaction (both before and after applying proposed remedies for competitive harm); (3) Actual and projected market shares of revenues and traffic volumes for major interregional or corridor flows by major commodity group. Origin/destination areas should be defined at relevant levels of aggregation for the commodity group in question. The data should be broken down by mode and (for the railroad portion) by single-line and interline routings (showing gateways used); (4) For each major commodity group, an analysis of traffic flows indicating patterns of geographic competition or product competition across different railroad systems, showing actual and projected revenues and traffic volumes; (5) Maps and other graphic displays where helpful in illustrating the analyses in this section; (6) An explicit delineation of the projected impacts of the transaction on the ability of various network links (including Class II and Class III rail carriers and ports) to participate in the competitive process and to sustain essential services; and (7) Supporting data for the analyses in this section, such as the basis for projections of changes in traffic patterns, including shipper surveys and econometric or other statistical analyses. If not made part of the application, applicants shall make these data available in a repository for inspection by other parties or otherwise supply these data on request, for example, electronically. Access to confidential information will be subject to protective order. For information drawn from publicly available published sources, detailed citations will suffice. (8) If necessary, an explanation as to how the lack of reliable and consistent data has limited applicants' ability to satisfy any of the requirements in this paragraph (b). (c) For significant transactions, specific regulations on impact analyses are not provided so that the parties will have the greatest leeway to develop the best evidence on the impacts of each individual transaction. As a general guideline, applicants shall provide supporting data that may (but need not) include: current and projected traffic flows; data underlying sales forecasts or marketing goals; interchange data; market share analysis; and/or shipper surveys. It is important to note that these types of studies are neither limiting nor all-inclusive. The parties must provide supporting data, but are free to choose the type(s) and format. If not made part of the application, applicants shall make these data available in a repository for inspection by other parties or otherwise supply these data on request, for example, electronically. Access to confidential information will be subject to protective order. For information drawn from publicly available published sources, detailed citations will suffice. [66 FR 32588, June 15, 2001] &#xA7; 1180.8 Operational data. (a) Applications for major transactions must include a full-system operating plan-incorporating any prospective operations in Canada and Mexico-from which they must demonstrate how the proposed transaction would affect operations within regions of the United States and on a nationwide basis. As part of the environmental review process, applicants shall submit: (1) A Safety Integration Plan, prepared in consultation with the Federal Railroad Administration, to ensure that safe operations would be maintained throughout the merger implementation process. (2) Information on what measures they plan to take to address potentially blocked crossings as a result of merger-related changes in operations or increases in rail traffic. (b) For major and significant transactions: Operating plan (exhibit 13). Submit a summary of the proposed operating plan changes, based on the impact analyses, that will result from the transaction, and their anticipated timing, allowing for any time required to complete rehabilitation, upgrading, yard construction, or other major operational changes following consummation of the proposed transaction. The plan should make clear the gains in service, operating efficiencies, and other benefits anticipated from the merger. The plan should include: (1) The patterns of service on the properties, including the proposed principal routes, proposed consolidations of main-line operations, and the anticipated traffic density and general categories of traffic (including numbers of trains) on all main and secondary lines in the system. Identify all yards expected to have an increase in activity greater than 20 percent. Changes in operations may be summarized in a pro forma density chart. (2) If commuter or other passenger services are operated over the lines of applicant carriers, detail any impacts anticipated on such services, including delays which may be occasioned because a line is scheduled to handle increased traffic due to route consolidations. (3) The anticipated equipment requirements of the proposed system, including locomotives, rolling stock by type, and maintenance-of-way equipment; plans for acquisition and retirement of equipment; projected improvements in equipment utilization and their relation to operating changes; and how these will lead to the financial and service benefits described in the summary. (4) A description of the effect of any deferred maintenance or delayed capital improvements on any road or equipment properties involved, the schedule for eliminating such deferrals, details of general system rehabilitation including rehabilitation relating to the transaction (including proposed yard and terminal modifications), and how these activities will lead to the service improvements or operating economies anticipated from the transaction. (5) Density charts (exhibit 14). Gross ton-mile traffic density charts shall be filed for applicant carriers containing a map geographically showing those lines handling 1 million gross ton-miles per mile road or more per year and respective densities, expressed in gross ton-miles per year, in each direction, in segments of such lines between major freight yards and terminals, including major intramodal and intermodal interchange points, using the corporate or political subdivision name of the points shown as well as the railroad station name. The mileage of each segment of line shall be provided, and should be shown on the chart. Data shown in the density chart shall be for the latest available full calendar year preceding the filing of the application. At applicants' option data may be shown on the density chart or an explanatory list. (c) For minor transactions: Operating plan-minor (exhibit 15). Discuss any significant changes in patterns or types of service as reflected by the operating plan expected to be used after consummation of the transaction. Where relevant, submit information related to the following: (1) Traffic level density on lines proposed for joint operations. (2) Impacts on commuter or other passenger service operated over a line which is to be downgraded, eliminated, or operated on a consolidated basis. (3) Operating economies, which include, but are not limited to, estimated savings. (4) Any anticipated discontinuances or abandonments. [47 FR 9844, Mar. 8, 1982. Redesignated at 47 FR 49592, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 66 FR 32589, June 15, 2001] &#xA7; 1180.9 Financial information. The following information shall be provided for major transactions, and for carriers shall conform to the Board's Uniform System of Accounts, 49 CFR part 1201: (a) Pro forma balance sheet (exhibit 16). Where the transaction involves a proceeding other than a control, a pro forma balance sheet statement giving effect to the proposed transaction commencing for the first year of the Impact Analysis in exhibit 12. The data shall be presented in columnar form showing: (1) In the first column, the balance sheet of transferee on a corporate entity basis, (2) In the second column, a balance sheet of transferor, on a corporate entity basis, (3) In the third column, pro forma adjustments and eliminations; and (4) In the fourth column, transferee's balance sheet giving effect to consumation of the proposed transaction. 4 4 Where the purchase of a line or line segment is involved, a procedure utilizing three columns should be followed. The first column should show transferee's actual balance sheet on a corporate entity basis for the latest available 12-month period, the second column should show the adjustments necessitated by the purchase, and the third is a compilation of the first two columns into a pro forma balance sheet. The transferor shall file a balance sheet similar to the one filed by the transferee, with the second column reflecting the adjustments resulting from the sale. If the parent company (if any) of the transferee or transferor is affected, a similar balance sheet shall be filed for each. All adjustments to these balance sheets shall be supported in footnotes to the appropriate balance sheet. Each adjustment and elimination shall be properly footnoted and fully explained. A pro forma balance sheet shall be submitted for the number of years following consummation necessary to effect the operating plan. (b) Pro forma income statement (exhibit 17). Where the transaction involves a proceeding other than a control, submit a pro forma income statement showing transferee's estimate of revenues, expenses, and net income for at least each of the 3 years following consummation of the transaction. 5 The pro forma data shall be presented in columnar form, showing 5 If the operating plan requires more than 3 years to be put into effect, the pro forma income statement shall be prepared for as many years as necessary to implement fully the operating plan. (1) in the first column, transferee's actual income statement on a corporate entity basis for the year indicated in the impact analysis in exhibit 12; (2) in the second column, a similar income statement for the transferor; (3) in the third column, forecasted adjustments to the combined revenues, expenses, and net income to reflect increases or decreases anticipated under the unified operations, and (4) in the fourth column, a compilation of the first three columns into a pro forma income statement. 6 6 Where the purchase of a line or line segment is involved, a procedure utilizing three columns should be followed. The first column should show transferee's actual income statement on a corporate entity basis for the latest available 12-month period, the second column should show the adjustment necessitated by the purchase, and the third column is a compilation of the first two columns into a pro forma income statement. The transferor shall file an income statement similar to the one filed by the transferee, with the second column reflecting the adjustments resulting from the sale. If the parent company (if any) of the transferor or transferee is affected, a similar statement shall be filed for each. All adjustments to these income statements shall be supported in footnotes to the appropriate income statements. The adjustments are to be supported by a statement explaining the basis used in determining the estimated changes in revenues, expenses, and net income appearing in the third column. Additionally, if the major financial advantages to be derived from the proposed transaction will not occur within 3 years after consummation, then applicant shall furnish additional information to reflect the number of years within which the financial advantages will be realized. The basis for all such data furnished shall be fully explained and supported. (c) Sources and application of funds (exhibit 18). Transferor's and transferee's statement of sources and application of funds for the current year, and a forecast 7 of sources and application of funds for each carrier (if a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation) for the year following consummation of the proposed transaction, and the years necessary to effectuate the operating plan. 8 The form and content of these statements should be constructed in accordance with the schedule: &#x201C;Statement of Changes in Financial Position&#x201D; required in the most recently filed Annual Report R-1 for Class I railroads. 7 The forecast should reflect only changes anticipated to result from the proposed transaction. Forecasts are not required to reflect general economic conditions unrelated to the proposed transaction. 8 The pro forma balance sheets (exhibit 16), pro forma income statements (exhibit 17), and sources and application of funds (exhibit 18) shall cover the same years. (d) Property encumbrance (exhibit 19). If any of the property covered by the application is encumbered and applicant has agreed to assume obligation or liability in respect thereof, submit: (1) A description of the property encumbered. (2) Amount of encumbrance and full description thereof, including maturity, interest rate, and other terms and conditions. (3) Amount of encumbrance assumed or to be assumed by applicant. (e) The Board will incorporate by reference the current balance sheets and income statements of Class I railroads which are on file with the Board. Class II and Class III railroads, and non-carrier entities shall submit balance sheets (exhibit 20) and income statements (exhibit 21) covering a period ending within 6 months before the application is filed. [47 FR 9844, Mar. 8, 1982. Redesignated at 47 FR 49592, Nov. 1, 1982, and amended at 58 FR 63104, Nov. 30, 1993; 62 FR 9717, Mar. 4, 1997; 64 FR 53269, Oct. 1, 1999] &#xA7; 1180.10 Service assurance plans. For major transactions: Applicants must submit a Service Assurance Plan, which, in concert with the operating plan requirements, identifies the precise steps to be taken by applicants to ensure that projected service levels would be attainable and that key elements of the operating plan would improve service. The plan shall describe with reasonable precision how operating plan efficiencies would translate into present and future benefits for the shipping public. The plan must also describe any potential area of service degradation that might result due to operational changes and how instances of degraded service might be mitigated. Like the Operating Plan on which it is based, the Service Assurance Plan must be a full-system plan encompassing: (a) Integration of operations. Based on the operating plan, and using appropriate benchmarks, applicants must develop a Service Assurance Plan describing how the proposed transaction would result in improved service levels and how and where service might be degraded. This description should be a precise route level review, but not a shipper-by-shipper review. Nonetheless, the plan should be sufficient for individual shippers to evaluate the projected improvements and changes, and respond to the potential areas of service degradation for their customary traffic routings. The plan should inform Class II and III railroads and other connecting railroads of the operational changes or changes in service terms that might affect their operations, including operations involving major gateways. (b) Coordination of freight and passenger operations. If Amtrak or commuter services are operated over the lines of applicant carriers, applicants must describe definitively how they would continue to facilitate these operations so as to fulfill existing performance agreements for those services. Whether or not the passenger services are operated over lines of applicants or applicants' operations are on the lines of passenger agencies, applicants must establish operating protocols ensuring effective communications with Amtrak and/or regional rail passenger operators to minimize any potential transaction-related negative impacts. (c) Yard and terminal operations. The operational fluidity of yards and terminals is key to the successful implementation of a transaction and effective service to shippers. Applicants must describe how the operations of principal classification yards and major terminals would be changed or revised and how these revisions would affect service to customers. As part of this analysis, applicants must furnish dwell time benchmarks for each facility described in this paragraph, and estimate what the expected dwell time would be after the revised operations are implemented. Also required will be a discussion of on-time performance for the principal yards and terminals in the same terms as required for dwell time. (d) Infrastructure improvements. Applicants must identify potential infrastructure impediments (using volume/capacity line and terminal forecasts), formulate solutions to those impediments, and develop time frames for resolution. Applicants must also develop a capital improvement plan (to support the operating plan) for timely funding and completion of the improvements critical to transition of operations. They should also describe improvements related to future growth, and indicate the relationship of the improvements to service delivery. (e) Information technology systems. Because the accurate and timely integration of applicants' information systems is vitally important to service, applicants must identify the process to be used for systems integration and training of involved personnel. This must include identification of the principal operations-related systems, operating areas affected, implementation schedules, the realtime operations data used to test the systems, and pre-implementation training requirements needed to achieve completion dates. If such systems will not be integrated and on line prior to implementation of the transaction, applicants must describe the interim systems to be used and the adequacy of those systems to ensure service delivery. (f) Customer service. To achieve and maintain customer confidence in the transaction and to ensure the successful integration and consolidation of existing customer service functions, applicants must identify their plans for the staffing and training of personnel within or supporting the customer service centers. This discussion must include specific information on the planned steps to familiarize customers with any new processes and procedures that they may encounter in using the consolidated systems and/or changes in contact locations, telephone numbers, or communication mode. (g) Labor. Applicants must furnish a plan for reaching necessary labor implementing agreements. Applicants must also provide evidence that sufficient qualified employees would be available at the proper locations to effect implementation. (h) Training. Applicants must establish a plan for providing necessary training to employees involved with operations, train and engine service, operating rules, dispatching, payroll and timekeeping, field data entry, safety and hazardous material compliance, and contractor support functions (e.g., crew van service), as well as training for other employees in functions that would be affected by the acquisition. (i) Contingency plans for merger-related service disruptions. To address potential disruptions of service that could occur, applicants must establish contingency plans. Those plans, based upon available resources and traffic flows and density, must identify potential areas of disruption and the risk of occurrence. Applicants must provide evidence that contingency plans would be in place to promptly restore adequate service levels. Applicants must also provide for the establishment of problem resolution teams and describe the specific procedures to be utilized for problem resolution. (j) Timetable. Applicants must identify all major functional or system changes/consolidations that would occur and the time line for successful completion. (k) Benchmarking. Specific benchmarking requirements may vary with the transaction. The minimum for benchmarking will be the 12 monthly periods immediately preceding the filing date of the notice of intent to file the application. Benchmarking is intended to provide an historic monthly baseline against which actual post-transaction levels of performance can be measured. Benchmarking data should be sufficiently detailed and encompassing to give a meaningful picture of operational performance for the newly merged system. Applicants will report in a matrix structure giving the historic monthly (benchmark) data and provide for the reporting of actual monthly data during the monitoring period. It is important that data reflect uniformly constructed measures of historic and post-transaction operations. Minimum benchmark data include: (1) Corridor performance benchmarking. Benchmarks will consist of route level performance information including flow data for traffic moving on the applicants' systems. These data will encompass flows to and from major points. A major point could be a Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) statistical area, or it can be a railroad-created point based on an operational grouping of stations or interchanges, or it could be another similar construction. It will be necessary for applicants to define traffic points used to establish benchmarks for purposes of monitoring. A sufficient number of corridor flows must be reported so as to fully represent system flows, including interchanges with short lines and other Class I's, and internal traffic of the respective applicants before the transaction. In addition to identifying traffic flows by areas, they also must be identified by commodity sector (for example, merchandise, intermodal, automotive, unit coal, unit grain etc.). Data for each flow must include: traffic volume in carloads (units), miles (area to area), and elapsed time in hours. Only loaded traffic need be included. (2) Yard and terminal benchmarking -(i) Terminal dwell. Terminal dwell for major yards will be calculated in hours for cars handled, not including run-through and bypass trains or maintenance of way and bad order cars. (ii) On time originations by major yard. On time originations are based on the departure of scheduled trains originating at a particular yard. (3) System benchmarking. (i) Cars on line. (ii) Average train velocity, by train type. (iii) Locomotive fleet size and applicable bad order ratios. (iv) Passenger train performance for commuter and intercity passenger services. [66 FR 32589, June 15, 2001] &#xA7; 1180.11 Transnational and other informational requirements. (a) For applicants whose systems include operations in Canada or Mexico, applicants must explain how cooperation with the Federal Railroad Administration would be maintained to address potential impacts on operations within the United States of operations or events elsewhere on their systems. (b) All applicants must assess whether any restrictions or preferences under foreign or domestic law or policies could affect their commercial decisions, and discuss any ownership restrictions applicable to them. [66 FR 32590, June 15, 2001] Subpart B-Transfer or Operation of Lines of Railroads in Reorganization &#xA7; 1180.20 Procedures. (a) Transactions under 11 U.S.C. 1172, for the transfer or operation of lines of bankrupt railroads under a plan of reorganization are governed by the following procedures: (1) If the buyer or operator is not a carrier, the Notice of Exemption procedures in subpart D of part 1150 of this title. (2) If the buyer or operator is a carrier, either: (i) The application procedures in subpart A of this part; or, (ii) The procedures in part 1121 of this title for a petition to exempt the transaction from prior approval requirements of 49 U.S.C. 11323 et seq. (b) The Board will establish or modify its existing procedures and deadlines as necessary in each proceeding to comply with appropriate orders of the Bankruptcy Court. (c) Under 11 U.S.C. 1172(c)(1), the Board is required to provide affected employees with adequate protection. The Board will impose the minimum levels required by 49 U.S.C. 11326, unless a need is shown for greater levels of protection. (d) All applications, notices, and petitions for exemption within the scope of &#xA7; 1180.20(a) shall advise the Board that the proposed transaction involves the transfer or operation of lines in reorganization. [57 FR 57112, Dec. 3, 1992; 57 FR 61585, Dec. 28, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 9717, Mar. 4, 1997]