PART 1-ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES Authority: 49 U.S.C. 322. Source: 81 FR 19819, Apr. 5, 2016, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 1.1 Overview. This part describes the organization of the United States Department of Transportation and provides for the performance of duties imposed upon, and the exercise of powers vested in, the Secretary of Transportation by law. &#xA7; 1.2 Organization of the Department. (a) The Secretary of Transportation is the head of the Department. (b) The Department comprises the Office of the Secretary of Transportation (OST), the Office of the Inspector General (OIG), and the following Operating Administrations, each headed by an Administrator who reports directly to the Secretary: (1) The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). (2) The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). (3) The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA). (4) The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA). (5) The Federal Transit Administration (FTA). (6) The Maritime Administration (MARAD). (7) The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). (8) The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). (9) The Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA). (10) The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation (SLSDC). &#xA7; 1.3 Exercise of authority. (a) In exercising powers and performing duties delegated by this part or redelegated pursuant thereto, officials of the Department of Transportation are governed by applicable laws, Executive Orders and regulations and by policies, objectives, plans, standards, procedures, and limitations as may be issued from time to time by or on behalf of the Secretary, or, with respect to matters under their jurisdictions, by or on behalf of the Deputy Secretary, the Under Secretary, the General Counsel, an Assistant Secretary, the Inspector General, or an Administrator. This includes, wherever specified, the requirement for advance notice to, prior coordination with, or prior approval by an authority other than that of the official proposing to act. (b) Subject to the reservations of authority to the Secretary of Transportation in &#xA7; 1.21, the Deputy Secretary, the Under Secretary, the General Counsel, the Assistant Secretaries, the Inspector General, and the Administrators exercise the powers and perform the duties delegated to them under this part. (c) For delegations of authority vested in the Secretary by Executive Order 13526 (see also Executive Orders 12958 and 12065) originally to classify documents as secret and confidential, see &#xA7; 8.11 of this subtitle. Previous delegations of authority to Department of Transportation officials to originally classify information as secret and confidential are hereby rescinded. &#xA7; 1.4 Construction. For the purposes of this part: (a) &#x201C;Federal Aviation Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.&#x201D; (b) &#x201C;Federal Highway Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration.&#x201D; (c) &#x201C;Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.&#x201D; (d) &#x201C;Federal Railroad Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration.&#x201D; (e) &#x201C;Federal Transit Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration.&#x201D; (f) &#x201C;Maritime Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Maritime Administration.&#x201D; (g) &#x201C;National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.&#x201D; (h) &#x201C;Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.&#x201D; (i) &#x201C;Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation Administrator&#x201D; is synonymous with &#x201C;Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.&#x201D; Subpart B-Office of the Secretary &#xA7; 1.11 Overview. This subpart sets forth the OST's key responsibilities, its basic organizational structure, and the line of Secretarial succession in time of need. It also describes the key responsibilities of OST officials, and sets forth delegations and reservations of authority to those officials. &#xA7; 1.13 OST key responsibilities. (a) The OST is responsible for: (1) Providing leadership in formulating and executing well-balanced national and international transportation objectives, policies, and programs to ensure the Nation has safe, economically competitive transportation systems that support U.S. interests, that are maintained in a state of good repair, that foster environmental sustainability, and that support livable communities; (2) Chairing the Department's Safety Council; (3) Stimulating and promoting research and development in all modes and types of transportation, with special emphasis on transportation safety; (4) Coordinating the various transportation programs of the Federal Government; (5) Encouraging maximum private development of transportation services; (6) Providing responsive, timely, and effective liaison with Congress and public and private organizations on transportation matters; (7) Providing innovative approaches to urban transportation and environmental enhancement programs; (8) Overseeing the Department's multimodal freight policy; (9) Providing effective management of the Department as a whole to ensure it achieves organizational excellence; (10) Leading Department-wide efforts for greater transparency and accountability; (11) Administering the Department's Livable Communities initiative to increase access to convenient and affordable transportation choices and improve transportation networks that accommodate pedestrians and bicycles; (12) Coordinating the Department's credit and financial assistance programs by leading the Credit Council to ensure responsible financing for the Nation's transportation projects; (13) Formulating and executing policies to ensure effective operation of the Department's aviation economic program including functions related to consumer protection and civil rights, domestic airline licensing matters, competition oversight, airline data collection, and review of international route negotiations and route awards to carriers; and (14) Leading and coordinating Federal Government transportation fringe benefit programs. (b) [Reserved] &#xA7; 1.15 OST structure. (a) Secretary and Deputy Secretary. The Secretary and Deputy Secretary are assisted by the following, all of which report directly to the Secretary: (1) The Chief of Staff; (2) The Executive Secretariat; (3) The Departmental Office of Civil Rights; (4) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization; (5) The Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response; (6) The Office of Public Affairs; (7) The Office of the Chief Information Officer; and (8) The Office of Drug & Alcohol Policy & Compliance. (b) The Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, the General Counsel, and the Assistant Secretaries for Administration, Budget and Programs, and Governmental Affairs also report directly to the Secretary. (c) Office of the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy. This Office is composed of: (1) The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, which includes: (i) The Office of Policy Development, Strategic Planning and Performance; (ii) The Office of Infrastructure Finance and Innovation; and (iii) The Office of the Chief Economist. (2) The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, which includes: (i) The Office of International Transportation and Trade; (ii) The Office of International Aviation; and (iii) The Office of Aviation Analysis. (d) Office of the General Counsel. This Office is composed of: (1) The Office of General Law; (2) The Office of International Law; (3) The Office of Litigation; (4) The Office of Legislation; (5) The Office of Regulation and Enforcement; (6) The Office of Operations, which includes the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Office; (7) The Office of Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, which includes the Aviation Consumer Protection Division; and (8) The Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution. (e) Office of the Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs. This Office is composed of: (1) The Office of Budget and Program Performance; (2) The Office of Financial Management; (3) The Office of the Chief Financial Officer for the Office of the Secretary; and (4) The Office of Credit Oversight and Risk Management. (f) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs. This Office contains the following functional areas: Congressional Affairs and Intergovernmental Affairs; and includes a Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tribal Government Affairs. (g) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration. This Office is composed of: (1) The Office of Audit Relations; (2) The Office of Human Resource Management; (3) The Office of Hearings; (4) The Office of Security; (5) The Office of the Senior Procurement Executive; (6) The Office of Financial Management and Transit Benefit Programs; and (7) The Office of Facilities, Information and Asset Management. &#xA7; 1.17 OST line of secretarial succession. (a) The following officials, in the order indicated, shall act as Secretary of Transportation, in case of the absence or disability of the Secretary, until the absence or disability ceases, or in the case of a vacancy, until a successor is appointed. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by the law, to depart from this order in designating an acting Secretary of Transportation. (1) Deputy Secretary. (2) Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy. (3) General Counsel. (4) Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs. (5) Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy. (6) Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs. (7) Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. (8) Assistant Secretary for Administration. (9) Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration. (10) Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. (11) Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. (12) Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration. (13) Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration. (14) Administrator of the Maritime Administration. (15) Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. (16) Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. (17) Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration. (18) Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. (19) Regional Administrator, Southern Region, Federal Aviation Administration. (20) Director, Resource Center, Lakewood, Colorado, Federal Highway Administration. (21) Regional Administrator, Northwest Mountain Region, Federal Aviation Administration. (b) Without regard to the foregoing, a person directed to perform the duties of the Secretary pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3347 (the Vacancies Act) shall act as Secretary of Transportation. OST Officials &#xA7; 1.20 Secretary of Transportation. The Secretary is the head of the Department. The Secretary exercises oversight of all of the OST components, as well as each of the Operating Administrations, and overall planning, direction, and control of the Department's agenda. &#xA7; 1.21 Reservations of Authority to the Secretary of Transportation. (a) All powers and duties that are not delegated by the Secretary in this part, or otherwise vested in officials other than the Secretary, are reserved to the Secretary. Except as otherwise provided, the Secretary may exercise powers and duties delegated or assigned to officials other than the Secretary. (b) The delegations of authority in subpart C (Office of the Inspector General) and subpart D (Operating Administrations) of this part do not extend to the following actions, authority for which is reserved to the Secretary or the Secretary's delegatee within the Office of the Secretary: (1) General transportation matters. (i) Transportation leadership authority pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 301 (Duties of the Secretary of Transportation: Leadership, consultation, and cooperation). (ii) Functions relating to transportation activities, plans, and programs under 49 U.S.C. 304 (Joint activities with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development). (iii) Authority to develop, prepare, coordinate, transmit, and revise transportation investment standards and criteria under 49 U.S.C. 305 (Transportation investment standards and criteria). (iv) Authority relating to standard time zones and advanced (daylight) time (15 U.S.C. 260 et seq. ). (2) Legislation, rulemakings, and reports. (i) Submission to the President, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, or Congress of proposals or recommendations for legislation, significant rulemakings and related documents as authorized by law, Executive Orders, proclamations or reorganization plans, or other Presidential action. (ii) Submission to the President or Congress of any report or any proposed transportation policy or investment standards or criteria, except with the prior written approval of the Secretary. (iii) Submission of the annual statement on systems of internal accounting and administrative control under the Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA) (31 U.S.C. 3512 note). (3) Budget and finance. (i) Approval and submission to the Office of Management and Budget of original or amended budget estimates or requests for allocations of personnel ceiling (31 U.S.C. 1108). (ii) Approval of requests for legislation which, if enacted, would authorize subsequent appropriations for the Department (31 U.S.C. 581b). (iii) Transfer of the balance of an appropriation from one operating element to another within the Department (31 U.S.C. 581c). (iv) Submission to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget of requests for the transfer of the balance or portions of an appropriation from one element to another within the Department (31 U.S.C. 665). (4) Personnel. (i) Recommendations to the Office of Personnel Management regarding the allocation of a position to the Senior Executive Service (SES) or Senior Level (SL), or Scientific and Professional Positions (ST) (5 U.S.C. 5108). (ii) Recommendations to the Office of Personnel Management of approval of the qualifications of any candidate for a position in the SES or SL. (iii) Recommendations to the Office of Personnel Management of a Lump-Sum Incentive Award in Excess of $10,000 (5 U.S.C. 4502). (iv) Approval of the following actions relating to Schedules A, B, C, or D (5 CFR part 213) and noncareer executive assignment positions or incumbents, except for actions under Schedules A and B limited to one year or less at grade GS-9 or lower, or an equivalent level: (A) Establishment or abolition of positions; (B) Hires; (C) Promotions other than quality and periodic within-grade promotions; (D) Transfer of personnel to Schedule A, B, C, or D positions or non-career executive assignment positions, either permanently or on detail; and (E) Transfer of personnel from Schedule A, B, C, or D or non-career executive assignment positions to career Civil Service positions. (v) Approval of employment of experts or consultants. (vi) Authority to determine the maximum limit of age for appointment of air traffic controllers as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3307(b). (vii) Authority to develop, coordinate, and issue wage schedules under the Federal Wage system. (5) Security. (i) Authorizing the filling of a critical-sensitive position for a limited period by a person on whom a preappointment full field investigation has not been completed (Executive Order 10450) as amended and Executive Order 12968 as amended by Executive Order 13467. (ii) Requesting Presidential approval of a claim of executive privilege with respect to information requested by a Congressional committee or Member of Congress. (iii) Making determinations prescribed by Executive Order 12968 as amended by Executive Order 13467 and 32 CFR part 147 relating to the adjudication and final denial of access to classified information to industry personnel. (iv) Making those determinations or delegations prescribed by Executive Order 13526 that are reserved to the head of the Department. (6) Procurement. Exercising the extraordinary authority for defense contracts provided for in Pub. L. 85-804 [(50 U.S.C. 1431-1435)]. (7) Printing. Requesting approval of the Joint Committee on Printing for any procurement or other action requiring Committee approval. (8) Interagency agreements. Executing any written interdepartmental or interagency agreement with the head of another executive department or agency. (9) Withholding of funds. Withholding or suspension of Federal-Aid Highway funds on a state-wide basis and the waiver or compromise of such withholding or suspension, except for the administration of 23 U.S.C. 141, 158, 159, 161, and 163 which are specifically delegated in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1.85 (FHWA) and 1.95 (NHTSA). (10) National Highway Safety Advisory Committee. Directing the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee to meet (23 U.S.C. 404(c)). (11) Maritime Subsidy Board. Reviewing decisions, reports, orders and other actions of the Maritime Subsidy Board. (12) Cash purchases of passenger transportation. The authority under 41 CFR 301-51.100 to authorize and approve cash purchases for emergency passenger transportation services costing more than $100. (13) Solicitation of gifts. The implied authority to solicit gifts associated with 49 U.S.C. 326(a). (14) Foreign travel. Approving official travel outside of the United States. (15) United States Merchant Marine Academy. Pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 51303, the authority to appoint each year without competition as cadets at the United States Merchant Marine Academy not more than 40 qualified individuals with qualities the Secretary considers to be of special value to the Academy. (16) Challenges and competitions. Approving any challenge or competition administered by any office or Operating Administration of the Department. (17) Committees. Approving the establishment, modification, extension, or termination of all advisory committees (including industry advisory committees) subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Pub. L. 92-463; 5 U.S.C. App.), and the designation of Departmental representatives to those committees. (18) Credit assistance approval. Granting final approval of applications for credit assistance under the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA), 23 U.S.C. 601-609. &#xA7; 1.22 Deputy Secretary. Along with the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary exercises oversight of all of the OST components, as well as each of the Operating Administrations, and overall planning, direction, and control of the Department's agenda. The Deputy Secretary: (a) May exercise the authority of the Secretary, except where specifically limited by law, order, regulation, or instructions of the Secretary; (b) Serves as the Chief Operating Officer; and (c) Serves as the Chief Acquisition Officer. &#xA7; 1.23 Delegations to the Deputy Secretary. The Deputy Secretary may exercise the authority of the Secretary, except where specifically limited by law, order, regulations, or instructions of the Secretary. In addition, the Deputy Secretary is delegated authority to: (a) Exercise executive control over Departmental Budgeting and Program Evaluation. (b) Serve as Chairman of the Departmental Executive Resources Board and its Executive Committee. (c) Serve as the Chair of the Department's Safety Council. (d) Serve as the Chair of the Department's Credit Council. (e) Approve the establishment, modification, extension, or termination of: (1) Department-wide (intra-department) committees affecting more than one program. (2) OST-sponsored interagency committees. (f) Approve the designation of: (1) Departmental representatives and the chairman for interagency committees sponsored by the Office of the Secretary. (2) Departmental members for international committees. (g) Serve as the representative of the Secretary on the board of directors of the National Railroad Passenger Corporation and carry out the functions vested in the Secretary as a member of the board by 49 U.S.C. 24302. (h) Approve the initiation of regulatory action, as defined in Executive Order 12866, by Secretarial offices and Operating Administrations. &#xA7; 1.24 Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy. The Under Secretary provides leadership in the Department's development of policies and programs to protect and enhance the safety, adequacy, and efficiency of the transportation system and services. The Office of the Under Secretary serves as the focal point within the Federal Government for coordination of intermodal transportation policy, which brings together departmental intermodal perspectives, advocates intermodal interests, and provides secretarial leadership and visibility on issues that involve or affect more than one Operating Administration. &#xA7; 1.25 Delegations to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy. The Under Secretary is delegated the following authorities: (a) Lead the development of transportation policy and serve as the principal adviser to the Secretary on all transportation policy matters. (b) Establish policy and ensure uniform departmental implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Pub. L. 91-190, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321-4347) within the Department of Transportation. (c) Oversee the implementation of 49 U.S.C. 303 (Policy on lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, and historic sites). (d) Represent the Secretary of Transportation on various interagency boards, committees, and commissions to include the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the Trade Policy Review Group and the Trade Policy Staff Committee. (e) Serve as the Department's designated principal conservation officer pursuant to section 656 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 94-91 [42 U.S.C. 7266], and carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 656 of the Act, which pertains to planning and implementing energy conservation matters with the Department of Energy. (f) Carry out the functions of the Secretary pertaining to aircraft with respect to Transportation Order T-1 (44 CFR chapter IV) under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, Pub. L. 81-774, 64 Stat. 798 [50 U.S.C. App. 2061 et seq. ] and Executive Order 10480, as amended (see also Executive Order 10773 and 12919). (g) Serve as Department of Transportation member of the Interagency Group on International Aviation, and pursuant to Executive Order 11382, as amended, serve as Chair of the Group. (h) Serve as second alternate representing the Secretary of Transportation to the Trade Policy Committee as mandated by Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979 (5 U.S.C. App. at 1381), as amended, and Executive Order 12188, as amended. (i) As supplemented by 14 CFR part 385, and except as provided in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1.99(j) (RITA), and 1.27 (General Counsel) of this part, carry out the functions transferred to the Department from the Civil Aeronautics Board and other related functions and authority vested in the Secretary under the following: (1) Sections 40103(a)(2) (relating to the consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board before prescribing regulations or procedures that will have a significant impact on accessibility of commercial airports for handicapped individuals), and (c) (relating to foreign aircrafts); 40105 (relating to international negotiations, agreements, and obligations); 40109(a), (c), (g), 46301(b) (smoke alarm penalty), (d), (f), (g) (relating to the authority to exempt certain air carriers) and (h); 40113(a) and (c); 40114(a) (relating to reports and records); 40115 (relating to the withholding of information from public disclosure) of Chapter 401 of 49 U.S.C.; and 40116 (relating to the Anti-Head Tax Act); (2) The following chapters of title 49, U.S.C., except as related to departmental regulation of airline consumer protection and civil rights which is delegated to the General Counsel at &#xA7; 1.27: (i) Chapter 411 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to air carrier certification; (ii) Chapter 413 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to foreign air transportation; (iii) Chapter 415 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to pricing; (iv) Chapter 417 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to the operations of air carriers, except sections 41721-41723; (v) Chapter 419 of title 49, U.S.C. and 39 U.S.C. 5402, relating to the transportation of mail; and (vi) Section 42303 of 49 U.S.C., relating to the management of the Web site regarding the use of insecticides in passenger aircraft. (3) Section 42111 of title 49, U.S.C. with respect to mutual aid agreements as it relates to foreign air transportation; (4) Chapters 461 and 463 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to aviation investigations, proceedings, and penalties under Part A of Subtitle VII of title 49, U.S.C. except for those sections delegated to the General Counsel under &#xA7; 1.27, and to the Federal Aviation Administrator under &#xA7; 1.83; (5) Chapter 473 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to international airport facilities. (6) Section 11 of the Clayton Act, Pub. L. 63-212 [15 U.S.C. 21], relating to air carriers and foreign air carriers. (7) Section 3 of An Act to Encourage Travel in the United States, and for other purposes, Pub. L. 76-755, 54 Stat. 773 [16 U.S.C. 18b]. (8) Sections 108(a)(4), 621(b)(5), 704(a)(5), and 814(b)(5) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, Pub. L. 90-321 [15 U.S.C. 1607(a)(4), 1681s(b)(5), 1691c(a)(5), and 1692l(b)(5)]. (j) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 44907(b)(1), (c), and (e) related to the security of foreign airports in coordination with the General Counsel, the Federal Aviation Administrator, and the Assistant Secretary for Administration. (k) Carry out section 101(a)(2) of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Pub. L. 107-42 [49 U.S.C. 40101 note], as delegated to the Secretary of Transportation by the President pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum dated September 25, 2001, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 911. (l) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by section 11143 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1144 (SAFETEA-LU), to manage the day-to-day activities associated with implementation of section 11143 regarding private activity bonds and tax-exempt financing of highway projects and rail-truck facilities. (m) In coordination with the General Counsel, carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the values of time and statistical life in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action. (n) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 47129, relating to resolution of disputes over the reasonableness of fees imposed upon air carriers. (o) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 167(f) (National Freight Strategic Plan). &#xA7; 1.25a Redelegations by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy. (a) The Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy is redelegated authority to: (1)(i) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegation of authority granted in this paragraph (a) to officials within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation. (ii) Publish, in appendix A of this part, redelegations made under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. (2) Establish policy and maintain oversight of implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Pub. L. 91-190, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321-4347) within the Department of Transportation. (3) Oversee the implementation of 49 U.S.C. 303 (Policy on lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, and historic sites). (4) Represent the Secretary of Transportation on various interagency boards, committees, and commissions to include the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the Trade Policy Review Group and the Trade Policy Staff Committee. (5) Serve as the Department's designated principal conservation officer pursuant to section 656 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 94-91 [ 42 U.S.C. 7266], and carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 656 of the Act, which pertains to planning and implementing energy conservation matters with the Department of Energy. (6) Carry out the functions of section 42303 of 49 U.S.C., relating to the management of the Web site regarding the use of insecticides in passenger aircraft. (7) In coordination with the General Counsel, carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the value of statistical life in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action. (8) Carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the value of time in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action. (b) The Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs is redelegated authority to: (1)(i) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegation of authority granted in this paragraph (b) to officials within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation. (ii) Publish, in appendix A of this part, redelegations made under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. (2) Carry out the functions of the Secretary pertaining to aircraft with respect to Transportation Order T-1 (44 CFR chapter IV) under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, Pub. L. 81-774, 64 Stat. 798 [50 U.S.C. App. 2061 et seq. ] and Executive Order 10480, as amended (see also Executive Order 10773 and 12919). (3) Serve as Department of Transportation member of the Interagency Group on International Aviation, and pursuant to Executive Order 11382, serve as Chair of the Group. (4) Serve as second alternate representing the Secretary of Transportation to the Trade Policy Committee as mandated by Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979 (5 U.S.C. App. at 1381), as amended, and Executive Order 12188. (5) Represent the Department of Transportation at the Trade Policy Committee Review Group and the Trade Policy Staff Committee, which were established at 15 CFR part 2002 as subordinate bodies of the Trade Policy Committee. (6) As supplemented by 14 CFR part 385, and except as provided in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1.99 (RITA), and 1.27 (General Counsel), carry out the functions transferred to the Department from the Civil Aeronautics Board and other related functions and authority vested in the Secretary under the following provisions of Title 49, U.S.C.: (i) Sections 40103(a)(2) (relating to the consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board before prescribing regulations or procedures that will have a significant impact on accessibility of commercial airports for handicapped individuals), and (c) (relating to foreign aircrafts); 40105 (relating to international negotiations, agreements, and obligations); 40109(a), (c), (g), 46301(b) (smoke alarm penalty), (d), (f), (g) (relating to the authority to exempt certain air carriers) and (h); 40113(a) and (c); 40114(a) (relating to reports and records); 40115 (relating to the withholding of information from public disclosure; and 40116 (relating to the Anti-Head Tax Act); (ii) The following chapters of title 49, U.S.C., except as related to departmental regulation of airline consumer protection and civil rights which is delegated to the General Counsel at &#xA7; 1.27: (A) Chapter 411, relating to air carrier certification; (B) Chapter 413, relating to foreign air transportation; (C) Chapter 415, relating to pricing; (D) Chapter 417, relating to the operations of air carriers, except section 41721-41723; (E) Chapter 419, and 39 U.S.C. 5402, relating to the transportation of mail; (iii) Section 42111 of title 49, U.S.C. with respect to mutual aid agreements as it relates to foreign air transportation; (iv) Chapters 461 and 463 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to aviation investigations, proceedings, and penalties under Part A of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII except for those sections delegated to the General Counsel under &#xA7; 1.27, and to the Federal Aviation Administrator under &#xA7; 1.83; (v) Chapter 473 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to international airport facilities. (vi) Section 11 of the Clayton Act, Pub. L. 63-212 [15 U.S.C. 21], relating to air carriers and foreign air carriers. (vii) Section 3 of An Act to Encourage Travel in the United States, and for other purposes, Pub. L. 76-755, 54 Stat. 773 [16 U.S.C. 18b]. (viii) Sections 108(a)(4), 621(b)(5), 704(a)(5), and 814(b)(5) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, Pub. L. 90-321 [15 U.S.C. 1607(a)(4), 1681s(b)(5), 1691c(a)(5), and 1692l(b)(5)]. (7) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 44907(b)(1), (c), and (e) related to the security of foreign airports in coordination with the General Counsel, the Federal Aviation Administrator, and the Assistant Secretary for Administration. (8) Carry out section 101(a)(2) of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Pub. L. 107-42 [49 U.S.C. 40101 note], as delegated to the Secretary of Transportation by the President pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum dated September 25, 2001, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 911. (9) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 47129, relating to resolution of disputes over the reasonableness of fees imposed upon air carriers. &#xA7; 1.26 General Counsel. The General Counsel is the chief legal officer of the Department, legal advisor to the Secretary, and final authority within the Department on questions of law. The Office of the General Counsel provides legal advice to the Secretary and secretarial offices, and supervision, coordination, and review of the legal work of the Chief Counsel Offices in the Department. The General Counsel participates with each Operating Administrator in the performance reviews of Chief Counsel. The General Counsel is responsible for retention of outside counsel, and for the approval of the hiring and promotion of departmental attorneys (other than in the Federal Aviation Administration). The General Counsel is also responsible for departmental regulation under statutes including the Air Carrier Access Act, statutes prohibiting unfair and deceptive practices in air transportation, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise program, and the Uniform Time Act. The General Counsel coordinates all international legal matters, and departmental participation in proceedings before other federal and state agencies. The General Counsel provides oversight of departmental litigation, regulation, legislation, Freedom of Information Act compliance, and administrative enforcement. &#xA7; 1.27 Delegations to the General Counsel. The General Counsel is delegated authority to: (a) Conduct all rulemaking proceedings under the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise program, and the Uniform Time Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 260 et seq. ). (b) Determine the practicability of applying the standard time of any standard time zone to the movements of any common carrier engaged in interstate or foreign commerce and issue operating exceptions in any case in which the General Counsel determines that it is impractical to apply the standard time (49 CFR 71.1). (c) Issue regulations making editorial changes or corrections to the regulations of the Office of the Secretary. (d) Grant permission, under specific circumstances, to deviate from a policy or procedure prescribed by the regulations of the Office of the Secretary (49 CFR part 9) with respect to the testimony of OST employees as witnesses in legal proceedings, the serving of legal process and pleadings in legal proceedings involving the Secretary or his Office, and the production of records of that Office pursuant to subpoena. (e) Respond to petitions for rulemaking or petitions for exemptions in accordance with 49 CFR 5.3, and notify petitioners of decisions in accordance with 49 CFR 5.3(d)(5). (f) Provide counsel to employees on questions of conflict of interest covered by departmental regulations on employee responsibility and conduct. (g) Coordinate the issuance of proposed Executive Orders and proclamations for transmittal to the Office of Management and Budget for action by the White House. (h) Except with respect to proceedings relating to safety fitness of an applicant (49 U.S.C. 307), decide on requests to intervene or appear before courts (with the consent of the Department of Justice) or agencies to present the views of the Department, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary. (i) Exercise the authority delegated to the Department by the Assistant Attorney General, Land and Natural Resources Division, in his order of October 2, 1970, to approve the sufficiency of the title to land being acquired by purchase or condemnation by the United States for the use of the Department. (See also Appendix 1 relating to delegations to Operating Administration Chief Counsel). (j) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 28 CFR part 14, related to the administrative disposition of federal tort claims, for claims involving the Office of the Secretary. (k) Compromise, suspend collection action on, or terminate claims of the United States that are referred to, or arise out of the activities of the Office of the Secretary of Transportation. (l) Conduct coordination with foreign governments under section 118 of the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (30 U.S.C. 1428). (m) Exercise review authority under 49 U.S.C. 41307 (related actions about foreign air transportation) delegated to the Secretary by the President in Executive Order 12597. (n) Assist and protect consumers in their dealings with the air transportation industry and conduct all departmental regulation of airline consumer protection and civil rights pursuant to chapters 401 (General Provisions), 411 (Air Carrier Certificates), 413 (Foreign Air Transportation), 417 (Operations of Carriers), and 423 (Passenger Air Service Improvements) of title 49 U.S.C. (o) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 40119(b) (Security and research and development activities), as implemented by 49 CFR part 15 (Protection of Sensitive Security Information), in consultation and coordination with the Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response. (p) Appear on behalf of the Department on the record in hearing cases, and initiate and carry out enforcement actions on behalf of the Department, under the authority transferred to the Department from the Civil Aeronautics Board as described in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1.25 and 1.25a (delegations to and redelegations by the Under Secretary), and 1.99 (RITA). This includes the authority to compromise penalties under 49 U.S.C. 46301 (civil penalties); to issue appropriate orders, including cease and desist orders, under 49 U.S.C. 46101 (complaints and investigations); and to require the production of information, under 49 U.S.C. 41708, enter carrier property and inspect records, under 49 U.S.C. 41709, and inquire into the management of the business of a carrier under 49 U.S.C. 41711 (Air carrier management inquiry and cooperation with other authorities), as appropriate to the enforcement responsibilities. In the event that such an enforcement matter comes before the Secretary of Transportation for adjudication, the Deputy General Counsel shall advise the Secretary. (q) Initiate and carry out enforcement actions relating to: (1) Foreign airport security on behalf of the Department under 49 U.S.C. 44907; and (2) The Consumer Credit Protection Act under section 4(a)(5) of the Civil Aeronautics Board Sunset Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-443) [15 U.S.C. 1607(a)(4), 1681s(b)(5), 1691c(a)(5) and 1692l(b)(5)]. (r) Administer 5 U.S.C. 552 (FOIA) and 49 CFR part 7 (Public Availability of Information) in connection with the records of the Office of the Secretary and issue procedures to ensure uniform departmental implementation of statutes and regulations regarding public access to records. (s) Prepare reports by carriers on incidents involving animals during air transport pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 41721. (t) Exercise authority vested in the Secretary by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321), to promulgate rules that adjust civil penalties with respect to aviation enforcement. (u) In coordination with the Under Secretary, to carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the value of statistical life in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action. (v) Approve the initiation of regulatory action, as defined in Executive Order 12866, by Secretarial offices and Operating Administrations in the event that the Deputy Secretary is absent or otherwise unavailable to exercise such authority (see &#xA7; 1.23(h)). (w) Approve requests to reclassify rulemakings as non-significant under DOT procedures. [81 FR 19819, Apr. 5, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 71717, Dec. 27, 2019; 86 FR 17294, Apr. 2, 2021] &#xA7; 1.27a Delegations to the Career Deputy General Counsel. The career Deputy General Counsel is delegated authority to: (a) Serve as the Department's Designated Agency Ethics Official in accordance with 5 CFR 2638.202; (b) Serve as the Department's Dispute Resolution Specialist pursuant to section 3(b) of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-320, 5 U.S.C. App.; and (c) Serve as the Department's Chief FOIA Officer under 5 U.S.C. 552(j). &#xA7; 1.27b Delegations to the Assistant General Counsel for General Law. The Assistant General Counsel for General Law is delegated authority to serve as the Department's Alternate Agency Ethics Official in accordance with 5 CFR 2638.202. &#xA7; 1.30 Assistant Secretaries. (a) In performing their functions, the Assistant Secretaries are responsible for continuing liaison and coordination among themselves and with the Operating Administrations to: (1) Avoid unnecessary duplication of effort by or in conflict with the performance of similar activities by the Operating Administrations and the other Assistant Secretaries pursuant to their Secretarial delegations of authority or other legal authorities; and (2) Assure that the views of the Operating Administrations are considered in developing departmental policies, plans, and proposals. The Assistant Secretaries are also available to assist, as appropriate, the Operating Administrations in implementing departmental policy and programs. As primary staff advisors to the Secretary, the Assistant Secretaries are concerned with transportation matters of the broadest scope, including modal, intermodal, and other matters of Secretarial interest. (b) There are exceptions to the normal staff role described in paragraph (a) of this section. In selected instances, the Secretary has specifically delegated to Assistant Secretaries authority which they may exercise on the Secretary's behalf. &#xA7; 1.31 Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy. The Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy provides policy advice to the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, and the Under Secretary. The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy is responsible for: Public policy development, coordination, and evaluation for all aspects of transportation, except in the areas of aviation and international affairs, with the goal of making the Nation's transportation resources function as an integrated national system; evaluation of private transportation sector operating and economic issues; evaluation of public transportation sector operating and economic issues; regulatory and legislative initiatives and review; energy, environmental, disability, and safety policy and program development and review; and transportation infrastructure assessment and review. For delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, see &#xA7; 1.25a(a). &#xA7; 1.32 Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs is responsible for policy development, coordination, and evaluation of issues involving aviation, as well as international issues involving all areas of transportation; private sector evaluation; international transportation and transport-related trade policy and issues; regulatory and legislative initiatives and review of maritime/shipbuilding policies and programs; transport-related trade promotion; coordination of land transport relations with Canada and Mexico; economic regulation of the airline industry while placing maximum reliance on market forces and on actual and potential competition; the essential air service program and other rural air service programs; and, in coordination with the FAA, promotion of the aerospace industry. For delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, see &#xA7; 1.25a(b). &#xA7; 1.33 Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs. (a) The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is the principal budget and financial advisor to the Secretary and serves as Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs. The CFO and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs provides oversight and policy guidance for all budget, financial management, program performance, and internal control activities of the Department and its Operating Administrations. (b) The CFO and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs concurs in the appointment and promotion of Chief Financial Officers, Budget Officers, and Directors of Finance of the Department and its Operating Administrations, and participates with each Administrator in the performance reviews of Chief Financial Officers, Budget Officers, and Directors of Finance in each of the Operating Administrations. (c) The CFO and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs, in consultation with the Chief Information Officer, may designate any information technology system as a financial management system under the CFO's policy and oversight area of responsibility. (d) The CFO and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs serves as the Vice Chair of the Department's Credit Council. The Office of the Assistant Secretary supports the Department's Credit Council by analyzing applications for the Department's various credit programs. The CFO also oversees the TIFIA program and the TIFIA Joint Program Office on behalf of the Secretary, including the evaluation of individual projects, and provides overall policy direction and program decisions for the TIFIA program. (e) The CFO and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs is responsible for preparation, review, and presentation of Department budget estimates; liaison with the Office of Management and Budget and Congressional Budget and Appropriations Committees; preparation of the Department's annual financial statements; departmental financial plans, apportionments, reapportionments, reprogrammings, and allotments; program and systems evaluation and analysis; program evaluation criteria; program resource plans; analysis and review of legislative proposals and one-time reports and studies required by Congress; and budget and financial management relating to the Office of the Secretary. &#xA7; 1.34 Delegations to the Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs. The Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs is delegated authority to: (a) Serve as the Department's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 901 (Establishment of Agency Chief Financial Officers). (b) Exercise day-to-day operating management responsibility over the Office of Budget and Program Performance, the Office of the OST Chief Financial Officer, the Office of Financial Management, and the Office of Credit Oversight and Risk Management. (c) Direct and manage the Departmental planning, evaluation, budget, financial management, and internal control activities. (d) Exercise oversight and provide exclusive policy guidance to the Enterprise Services Center (ESC) regarding all financial management activities conducted by ESC and financial systems operated by ESC. This authority includes concurrence with any organizational changes within the Federal Aviation Administration that may affect financial management operations of the ESC. (e) Request apportionment or reapportionment of funds by the Office of Management and Budget, provided that no request for apportionment or reapportionment which anticipates the need for a supplemental appropriation shall be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget without appropriate certification by the Secretary. (f) Issue allotments or allocations of funds to components of the Department. (g) Authorize and approve official travel and transportation for staff members of the Immediate Office of the Secretary including authority to sign and approve related travel orders and travel vouchers, but not including requests for overseas travel. (h) Issue monetary authorizations for use of reception and representation funds. (i) Except as otherwise delegated, establish or operate or both, any special funds that are required by statute or administrative determination. (j) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 31 U.S.C. 3711 to collect, compromise, suspend collection action on, or terminate claims of the United States which are referred to, or arise out of the activities of, the Office of the Secretary (excluding claims pertaining to the Working Capital Fund), subject to the limits on that authority imposed by 31 U.S.C. 3711 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR chapter IX. (k) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-204) (33 U.S.C. 3301 note). (l) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-300) (31 U.S.C. 3321 note). (m) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Recovery Auditing Act (Section 831, Defense Authorization Act for FY 2002 (Pub. L. 107-107)). (n) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3512 note). (o) Exercise the Secretary's authority under Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA) (31 U.S.C. 3512 note). (p) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Accounting and Auditing Act of 1950 (31 U.S.C. 3512), as amended by FMFIA. (q) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) (Pub. L. 103-623). (r) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002, 31 U.S.C. 3515. (s) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Government Management Reform Act of 1994 (GMRA) (Pub. L. 103-356). (t) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 5 U.S.C. 5584 and the OMB memorandum, &#x201C;Determination with Respect to Transfer of Functions Pursuant to Public Law 104-316&#x201D; (December 17, 1996) to waive claims of the United States arising out of an erroneous payment to an employee of pay or allowances, or travel, transportation, or relocation expenses and allowances, and deny requests for waiver of such claims. (u) Serve as the Department's Performance Improvement Officer under 31 U.S.C. 1124. &#xA7; 1.35 Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs. The Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs serves as the Department's primary point of contact for Congressional offices, as well as State and locally elected officials; works with other departmental offices to ensure that Congressional mandates are fully implemented by the Department; and works with the White House, other Federal agencies, and Congress to fulfill the Department's legislative priorities. The Assistant Secretary coordinates congressional and intergovernmental activities with governmental affairs offices in the Operating Administrations and is the final authority on governmental affairs issues within the Department. The Assistant Secretary participates with each Administrator in the hiring decisions (other than in the Federal Aviation Administration) and performance reviews of all of the Operating Administrations' Directors of Governmental Affairs. The Assistant Secretary supervises the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tribal Government Affairs who plans and coordinates the Department's policies and programs with respect to Indian tribes and tribal organizations. [82 FR 19192, Apr. 26, 2017] &#xA7; 1.36 Delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs. The Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs is delegated authority to: (a) Establish procedures for responding to Congressional correspondence; and (b) Supervise the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tribal Government Affairs. &#xA7; 1.37 Assistant Secretary for Administration. The Assistant Secretary for Administration is the principal advisor to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary on Department-wide administrative matters and is the final authority on these matters within the Department. The Assistant Secretary for Administration serves as the Designated Agency Safety and Health Official. The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration's responsibilities include: Strategic management of human capital; monitoring the progress of departmental offices related to sustainability goals; controls and standards to ensure that procurement and financial assistance programs are in accord with good business practice; follow-up and resolution of Government Accountability Office and Inspector General audit reviews; information resource management; property management information; facilities; and security. The Assistant Secretary for Administration is responsible for recommending performance objectives for the Operating Administrations' Directors of Human Resources. The Assistant Secretary for Administration participates with each Administrator in the hiring decisions (other than in the Federal Aviation Administration) and performance reviews of all of the Operating Administrations' Associate Administrators for Administration. [82 FR 19192, Apr. 26, 2017] &#xA7; 1.38 Delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Administration. The Assistant Secretary for Administration is delegated authority for the following: (a) Acquisition. (1) Exercise procurement authority with respect to requirements of the Office of the Secretary or an Operating Administration, if requested under an agreement with that Operating Administration. (2) Make the required determinations with respect to mistakes in bids relative to sales of personal property conducted by the Office of the Secretary without power of redelegation. (3) Except as delegated to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator by &#xA7; 1.95, carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 3 of Executive Order 11912 (&#x201C;Delegation of Authorities Relating to Energy Policy and Conservation&#x201D;), as amended. (4) Carry out the functions delegated to the Secretary from time to time by the Administrator of General Services to lease real property for Department use. (5) Carry out the duties and responsibilities of agency head for departmental procurement within the meaning of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. This authority as agency head for departmental procurement excludes duties, responsibilities, and powers expressly reserved for the Secretary of Transportation. (6) Serve as Deputy Chief Acquisition Officer. (7) Provide departmental guidance on grants, cooperative agreements, and other financial assistance transactions, but not including loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, or insurance. (8) Issue departmental procurement regulations, subject to coordination with the General Counsel and interested Operating Administrations. In commenting upon proposed provisions for the procurement regulations, the Operating Administrations will indicate the nature and purpose of any additional implementing or supplementing policy guidance which they propose to issue at the Operating Administration level. (b) Personnel. (1) Conduct a personnel management program for the Office of the Secretary of Transportation, with authority to take, direct others to take, recommend or approve any personnel action with respect to such authority. (2) Serve as Vice Chair of the Departmental Executive Resources Board. (3) Exercise emergency authority to hire without the prior approval of the Deputy Secretary normally required by departmental procedures implementing general employment limitations when in the judgment of the Assistant Secretary immediate action is necessary to effect the hire and avoid the loss of a well-qualified job applicant, and for similar reasons. (4) Review proposals of the Office of the Secretary for each new appointment or transfer to verify the essentiality of the position. (5) Approve employment of experts and consultants in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109. (6) Provide policy and overall direction in the execution of the DOT Labor-Management Relations Program. (7) Develop and operate the Federal Employee Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Program in accordance with Executive Order 12564 and The Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, Public Law 102-143, Title V. (8) Serve as the Chief Human Capital Officer: (i) Oversee, direct, and execute all authorities included in the Chief Human Capital Officers Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 1401 et seq. ); and (ii) Advise the Secretary on the Department's human capital needs and obligations, and implement all related rules and regulations of the President and the Office of Personnel Management, and all laws governing human resource management. (9) Serve as the Telework Managing Officer under 5 U.S.C. 6505. (c) Sustainability. (1) Responsible for ensuring that the Department meets its sustainability goals pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-140); the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Pub. L. 109-58); and Executive Order 13693 (&#x201C;Planning for Federal Sustainability in the Next Decade&#x201D;). (2) Serve as the Chief Sustainability Officer under Executive Order 13693. (d) Finance. (1) Settle and pay claims by employees of the Office of the Secretary for personal property losses as provided by 31 U.S.C. 3721. (2) Oversee the Working Capital Fund for the Office of the Secretary, established by 49 U.S.C. 327. (3) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 31 U.S.C. 3711 to collect, compromise, suspend collection action on, or terminate claims of the United States which are referred to, or arise out of the activities of the Working Capital Fund, subject to the limits on that authority imposed by 31 U.S.C. 3711 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR chapter IX. (e) Security. (1) Serves as the agency representative appointed by the Secretary of Transportation to participate on the Interagency Security Committee in accordance with Executive Order 12977, to establish policies for the security in and protection of Federal facilities. (2) Represents the department on the White House Communications Agency Principal Communications Working Group and the Department of State Overseas Security Policy Board. (3) Conducts an internal security management program for the Department of Transportation with authority to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve security actions with respect to such authorities related to personnel security, physical security, technical security, and classified and sensitive information management. (4) Issues identification media as directed by Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12, &#x201C;Policy for Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors&#x201D; and other identification media (including credentials, passports and visas) by direction of the Secretary. (5) Manages the Department's classified information program as directed by Executive Order 13526 (&#x201C;Classified National Security Information&#x201D;). (6) Takes certain classified actions on behalf of the Department in connection with technical counter-surveillance programs as required by Executive Order 13526 (&#x201C;Classified National Security Information&#x201D;). (7) In conjunction with the Office of Security, Intelligence and Emergency Response, and the Office of the General Counsel, carries out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 40119(b), as implemented by 49 CFR part 15, related to the protection of information designated as Sensitive Security Information. (8) Ensure Department-wide compliance with Executive Orders 12968 as amended, 13467, 13488, 13526, 13556, and related regulations and issuances. (f) Printing. Request approval of the Joint Committee on Printing, Congress of the United States, for any procurement or other action requiring Committee approval. (g) Hearings. Provide logistical and administrative support to the Department's Office of Hearings. (h) Federal real property management. Carry out the functions assigned to the Secretary with respect to Executive Order 13327, as amended. (i) The Uniform Act. Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary to implement the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act of 1970 (Uniform Act), 42 U.S.C. Chapter 61, with respect to programs administered by the Office of the Secretary. The Assistant Secretary may prescribe additional Uniform Act guidance that is appropriate to those particular programs, provided that such additional guidance must be consistent with the Uniform Act and 49 CFR part 24. The lead agency for Uniform Act matters is the Federal Highway Administration (see &#xA7; 1.85 and 49 CFR part 24). (j) Designated Agency Safety and Health Official. Serve as the Designated Agency Safety and Health Official under 29 CFR 1960.6(a) to represent the interest of, and support, the Department's occupational safety and health program. (k) Senior Real Property Officer. Serve as the Senior Real Property Officer for the Department pursuant to Executive Order 13327 (&#x201C;Federal Real Property Asset Management&#x201D;) (as amended), and chair the Departmental Real Property Planning Council. (l) Transportation fringe benefits. (1) Oversee the Department's transportation fringe benefit program under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f). (2) Consult with and provide guidance to other Federal agencies on transportation fringe benefit programs under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f). (3) Establish and maintain uniform Federal Government standards for developing and supporting Federal agencies' transportation fringe benefit programs under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f). &#xA7; 1.38a Redelegations by the Assistant Secretary for Administration. (a) The Director, Office of the Senior Procurement Executive is redelegated the authority to: (1) Carry out the duties and responsibilities of agency head for departmental procurement within the meaning of the Federal Acquisition Regulation except for those duties expressly reserved for the Secretary of Transportation. (2) Carry out the functions of the Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO) except for those functions specifically reserved for the Deputy Secretary. In carrying out these functions and in support of requirements under Services Acquisition Reform Act (SARA), enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2004-Public Law 108-136, the Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) is expected to interact directly, and without intervening authority, with the CAO on issues related to strategic acquisition policy, implementation, and management. The nature and frequency of interactions with the CAO will be determined mutually between the SPE and the CAO. (3) Procure and authorize payment for property and services for the Office of the Secretary, with power to re-delegate and authorize successive re-delegations. (b) The Director of Human Resources Management is redelegated the authority to: (1) Develop departmental human capital policies and objectives, and monitor and oversee the implementation of those policies. (2) Establish departmental human capital performance objectives and metrics. (3) Conduct a personnel management program for the Office of the Secretary with authority to take, direct others to take, recommend or approve any personnel action with respect to such authority. (4) Concur in the appointment and promotion of all Human Resources (HR) Directors in each Operating Administration and participate in the performance reviews of HR Directors. (5) Provide policy and overall direction in the execution of the DOT Labor-Management Relations Program. (6) Develop and operate the Federal Employee Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Program in accordance with Executive Order 12564 and The Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, Public Law 102-143, Title V. (7) Develop, coordinate, and issue wage schedules for Department employees under the Federal Wage System. (c) The Director of Financial Management within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration is redelegated the authority to: (1) Settle and pay claims by Working Capital Fund employees for personal property losses as provided by 31 U.S.C. 3721 if the amount of the payment does not exceed $500. (d) The Director, Transit Benefit Program is redelegated the authority to: (1) Oversee the Department's transportation fringe benefit program under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f). (2) Consult with and provide guidance to other Federal agencies on transportation fringe benefit programs under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f). (3) Establish and maintain uniform Federal Government standards for developing and supporting Federal agencies' transportation fringe benefit programs under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f). &#xA7; 1.39 Executive Secretariat. The Executive Secretariat provides organized staff services to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary to assist them in carrying out their management functions and their responsibilities for formulating, coordinating and communicating major policy decisions. The Office controls and coordinates internal and external material directed to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary and ensures that their decisions and instructions are implemented. &#xA7; 1.40 Departmental Office of Civil Rights. The Departmental Office of Civil Rights serves as the Department's Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Officer and Title VI Coordinator. The Director also serves as principal advisor to the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary on the civil rights and nondiscrimination statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders applicable to the Department, including titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the ADA Amendments Act of 2008, and the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008. The Departmental Office of Civil Rights provides guidance to the Operating Administrations and Secretarial officers on these matters. The Office periodically reviews and evaluates the civil rights programs of the Operating Administrations to ensure that recipients of financial assistance meet applicable Federal civil rights requirements. &#xA7; 1.41 Delegations to the Director of the Departmental Office of Civil Rights. The Director of the Departmental Office of Civil Rights is delegated authority to conduct all stages of the formal employment discrimination complaints process (including acceptance/dismissal, investigation, and final adjudication); to provide guidance to the Operating Administrations and Secretarial officers concerning the implementation and enforcement of all civil rights laws, regulations and Executive Orders for which the Department is responsible; to otherwise perform activities to ensure compliance with external civil rights programs; and to review and evaluate the Operating Administrations' enforcement of these authorities. These authorities include: (a) Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq. and 2000e et seq. (b) Sections 501 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 791 and 794-794a. (c) Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 29 U.S.C. 621 et seq. (d) Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq. (e) Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12101-121213. (f) ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-325) [42 U.S.C. 12101 Note]. (g) Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, 42 U.S.C. 2000ff et seq. (h) Equal Pay Act of 1963, 29 U.S.C. 206(d). (i) Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration Reorganization Act (Pub. L. 102-321) (j) Chapter XIV of subtitle B, of title 29 of the CFR (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Regulations). (k) Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Pub. L. 90-284) [42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq. ]. (l) 40 U.S.C. 476 (prohibition on sex discrimination). (m) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681. (n) In coordination with the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, Executive Order 12898 (&#x201C;Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations&#x201D;) (See also Executive Order 12948). (o) 49 U.S.C. 306 (prohibition on discrimination in programs receiving financial assistance), 5310 (transportation for elderly persons and persons with disabilities), 5332 (nondiscrimination in mass transportation), 41705 (discrimination by air carriers against handicapped persons), 47113 (minority and disadvantaged business participation), and 47123 (nondiscrimination in airport improvement programs). (p) 23 U.S.C. 324 and 402(b)(1)(D) (nondiscrimination in highway programs). (q) The Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, Public Law 102-240, 105 Stat. 1919, section 1003. &#xA7; 1.42 Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. The Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization ensures that the Department's small and disadvantaged business policies and programs are developed in a fair, efficient, and effective manner. The Office is responsible for the Department's implementation and execution of the functions and duties under the Small Business Act, and providing opportunities, technical assistance, and financial services to the small and disadvantaged business community. &#xA7; 1.43 Delegations to the Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization is delegated authority to: (a) Exercise departmental responsibility for the implementation and execution of functions and duties under sections 2[8] and 2[15] of the Small Business Act (Pub. L. 85-836) [15 U.S.C. 637 and 644]. (b) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 332 (Minority Resource Center). &#xA7; 1.44 Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response. The Director of the Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response is responsible for the development, coordination, and execution of plans and procedures for the Department to balance transportation security requirements with the safety, mobility and economic needs of the Nation through effective intelligence, security, preparedness and emergency response programs. The Director is the Department's principal Emergency Coordinator for the implementation of these programs. &#xA7; 1.45 Delegations to the Director of the Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response. The Director of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response is delegated authority to: (a) Carry out the functions related to emergency preparedness and response vested in the Secretary by the following authorities: 49 U.S.C. 101 and 301; Executive Order 12148, as amended (&#x201C;Federal Emergency Management&#x201D;); Executive Order 12656 (&#x201C;Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities&#x201D;) (as amended; see Executive Order 13286); Executive Order 12742 (&#x201C;National Security Industrial Responsiveness&#x201D;); Executive Order 13434 (&#x201C;National Security Professional Development&#x201D;); Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app at 235 (2012); and such other statutes, executive orders, and other directives as may pertain to emergency preparedness and response. (b) Serve as the Department's Continuity Coordinator in accordance with National Security Presidential Directive 51/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, National Continuity Policy, and Federal Continuity Directives (FCD) 1 Federal Executive Branch National Continuity Program and Requirements and FCD 2 Federal Executive Branch Mission Essential Function and Primary Mission Essential Function Identification and Submission Process. Provide leadership for departmental programs pertaining to intelligence related to the transportation sector, transportation security policy, and civil transportation emergency preparedness and response activities. (c) Lead departmental collaboration efforts with the Department of Homeland Security and other Departments and Agencies related to transportation security and transportation infrastructure protection as required by Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7, Critical Infrastructure Identification, Prioritization, and Protection. (d) Together with the Assistant Secretary for Administration, carry out oversight and management of the duties pertaining to national security professional development assigned to the Secretary under Executive Order 13434 (&#x201C;National Security Professional Development&#x201D;). (e) Together with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, coordinate the Department's responsibilities under National Security Presidential Directive 44, Management of Interagency Efforts Concerning Reconstruction and Stabilization, and Presidential Decision Directive 56, Managing Complex Contingency Operations, pertaining to interagency reconstruction and stabilization assistance. (f) Lead departmental efforts pertaining to transportation-related international civil emergency preparedness activities, including coordinating DOT representation on North Atlantic Treaty Organization committees, as directed under Executive Order 12656 (as amended; see Executive Order 13286). (g) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 40119(b), as implemented by 49 CFR part 15, in consultation and coordination with the General Counsel. (h) Oversee the Department's protective service program. (i) Serve as the Secretary's representative to the Transportation Security Oversight Board, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 115, when so designated. (j) Lead Departmental participation in internal and interagency planning efforts related to preparedness in accordance with Presidential Policy Directive 8, National Preparedness, in coordination with the Under Secretary. (k) Serve as the Secretary's senior advisor on matters pertaining to public health, biological, and medical matters. (l) Develop departmental plans to support the Department of Defense Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) program and allocate civil air carrier aircraft to CRAF based on Department of Defense requirements. (m) Oversee operation of the Department's Crisis Management Center. (n) Lead departmental efforts for all interaction with the Program Manager, Information Sharing Environment to include appointing the Associate Director for Intelligence as the DOT Information Sharing Program Manager to coordinate day-to-day Information Sharing Environment matters. (o) Carry out departmental responsibilities under Executive Order 13587 (&#x201C;Structural Reforms to Improve the Security of Classified Networks and the Responsible Sharing and Safeguarding of Classified Information&#x201D;) including overseeing classified information sharing and safeguarding efforts for DOT. Oversee the day-to-day activities for monitoring the Top Secret and Secret classified network used by DOT and function as the Senior Official principally responsible for establishing and implementing the DOT Insider Threat Program. (p) Serve as the department's program manager responsible for oversight of all intelligence programs, to include the DOT Counterintelligence effort as it pertains to the DOT classified networks, and coordinate intelligence matters throughout the department. Nothing in this provision is intended to prohibit or limit a component's ability to conduct intelligence activities authorized by law. (q) Carry out the functions under the Defense Production Act of 1950, Public Law 81-774, 64 Stat. 798, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2061 et seq. ), that were vested in the Secretary by Executive Order 13603 (&#x201C;National Defense Resources Preparedness&#x201D;). &#xA7; 1.46 Office of Public Affairs. The Director of Public Affairs is the principal advisor to the Secretary and Secretarial Officers on public affairs issues and the final authority on public affairs issues within the Department. The Office of Public Affairs prepares news releases and supporting media materials, and maintains a new media presence. The Office also provides information to the Secretary on opinions and reactions of the public and news media on programs and transportation issues. The Office of Public Affairs is responsible for the supervision, coordination, and review of the activities of the public affairs offices within the Operating Administrations. The Director of Public Affairs participates with each Administrator in the hiring decisions (other than in the Federal Aviation Administration) and performance reviews of all of the Operating Administrations' Directors of Public Affairs. [82 FR 19193, Apr. 26, 2017] &#xA7; 1.47 Delegations to the Assistant to the Secretary and Director of Public Affairs. The Assistant to the Secretary and Director of Public Affairs is delegated authority to: (a) Monitor the overall public information program and review and approve departmental informational materials having policy-making ramifications before they are printed and disseminated. (b) Carry out the functions to promote carpooling and vanpooling transferred to the Department of Transportation by section 310 of the Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977 (Pub. L. 95-91) [42 U.S.C. 7159]. &#xA7; 1.48 Office of the Chief Information Officer. The Chief Information Officer (CIO) is the principal information technology (IT), cyber security, privacy, and records management advisor to the Secretary, and is the final authority on these matters within the Department. The Office of the CIO supports the Organizational Excellence Strategic Goal by providing leadership on all matters associated with the Department's IT portfolio. The CIO participates with each Administrator in the hiring decisions and performance reviews of the Operating Administrations' CIOs. [82 FR 19193, Apr. 26, 2017] &#xA7; 1.49 Delegations to the Chief Information Officer. The Chief Information Officer is delegated authority to: (a) Carry out all functions and responsibilities assigned to the Secretary with respect to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3506); (b) Carry out all functions and responsibilities assigned to the Secretary with respect to the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 11312 to 11314, and 11317); (c) Carry out all functions and responsibilities assigned to the Secretary with respect to the E-Government Act of 2002, Public Law 107-347; (d) Carry out all functions and responsibilities necessary to ensure compliance with the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3534 and 3544); (e) Serve as the Chief Privacy Officer, 42 U.S.C. 2000ee-2, and administer the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and 49 CFR part 10 (Maintenance of and Access to Records Pertaining to Individuals) in connection with the records of the Office of the Secretary; (f) Carry out all functions and responsibilities necessary to issue notices of Department of Transportation systems of records as required by the Privacy Act; (g) Carry out all functions and responsibilities assigned to the Secretary with respect to the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. 3101-3102) and necessary to ensure compliance with the regulations of the National Archives and Records Administration (36 CFR parts 1220 through 1299; 44 U.S.C. Chapters 21, 29, 31, and 33), in coordination with the General Counsel; and (h) Serve as the Senior Agency Official for Geospatial Information under Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-06-07, &#x201C;Designation of a Senior Agency Official for Geospatial Information&#x201D; (March 3, 2006). &#xA7; 1.50 Office of Drug & Alcohol Policy & Compliance. The Office of Drug & Alcohol Policy & Compliance advises the Secretary on national and international drug testing and control issues and is the principal advisor to the Secretary on rules related to the drug and alcohol testing of safety-sensitive transportation employees in aviation, trucking, railroads, mass transit, pipelines, and other transportation industries. The Office, in coordination with the Office of the General Counsel, publishes and provides interpretations of rules related to 49 CFR part 40 on the conduct of drug and alcohol tests, including how to conduct tests, and which procedures to use when testing. The Office coordinates with Federal Agencies and assists foreign governments in developing drug and alcohol testing programs and implementing the President's National Drug Control Strategy. &#xA7; 1.60 General Authorizations and Delegations to Secretarial Officers. (a) Acting in his or her own name and title, the Under Secretary, the General Counsel, and each Assistant Secretary, within his or her sphere of responsibility, is authorized to identify and define the requirements for, and to recommend to the Secretary, new or revised departmental policies, plans, and proposals. Each of these officers is authorized to issue departmental standards, criteria, systems and procedures that are consistent with applicable laws, Executive Orders, Government-wide regulations and policies established by the Secretary, and to inspect, review, and evaluate departmental program performance and effectiveness and advise the Secretary regarding the adequacy thereof. (b) Except for nondelegable statutory duties including those that transfer as a result of succession to act as Secretary of Transportation, each Deputy Assistant Secretary and Deputy General Counsel is authorized to act for and perform the duties of his or her principal in the absence or disability of the principal and as otherwise directed by the principal. (c) The Deputy Secretary, the Under Secretary, the General Counsel, and the Assistant Secretaries for Administration, Budget and Programs, and Governmental Affairs are delegated authority to: (1) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegations of authority granted by the Secretary within their respective organizations, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation, including authority to publish those redelegations in appendix A of this part. (2) Authorize and approve official travel (except foreign travel) and transportation for themselves, their subordinates, and others performing services for, or in cooperation with, the Office of the Secretary. (3) Establish ad hoc committees for specific tasks within their assigned staff area. (4) Establish, modify, extend, or terminate standing committees within their specific areas of responsibility when directed or authorized to do so by the Secretary. (5) Designate members of interagency committees when such committees are specifically concerned with responsibilities of direct interest to their office. (6) Exercise the following authorities with respect to positions in the Senior Executive Service and Senior Level within their respective areas of responsibility: (i) Determine how executive level positions will be filled; i.e., by reassignment, promotion, or appointment. (ii) Establish selection criteria to be used in identifying eligible candidates. (iii) Confer with the Administrators on selection criteria and candidates for an executive level position that is a counterpart of an activity or position in the Office of the Secretary. (iv) Recommend final selection for executive level positions, subject to review by the Executive Committee of the Departmental Executive Resources Board and approval by the Secretary and the Office of Personnel Management. (7) Enter into inter- and intra-departmental reimbursable agreements other than with the head of another department or agency (31 U.S.C. 686). This authority may be redelegated only to office directors or other comparable levels and to contracting officers. (8) Administer and perform the functions described in their respective functional statements. (9) Exercise the authority of the Secretary to make certifications, findings and determinations under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96-354) with regard to any rulemaking document for which issuance authority is delegated by other sections in this part. This authority may be redelegated to those officials to whom document issuance authority has been redelegated. (10) Exercise the authority of the Secretary to resolve informal allegations of discrimination arising in or relating to their respective organizations through Equal Employment Opportunity counseling or the Alternative Dispute Resolution process and to develop and implement affirmative action and diversity plans within their respective organizations. (11) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 326(a) and 31 U.S.C. 1353 to accept, subject to the concurrence of the Designated Agency Ethics Official, the following: Gifts of property (other than real property) not exceeding $1,000 in value, gifts of services (in carrying out aviation duties and powers) not exceeding $1,000 in value, and reimbursement of travel expenses from non-federal sources not exceeding $3,000 in value. Acceptance of gifts or travel reimbursement that exceed these limits in value or are otherwise significant may only take place with the additional concurrence of the General Counsel. This delegation extends only to the acceptance of gifts or travel expenses and does not authorize the solicitation of gifts, which is reserved to the Secretary at &#xA7; 1.21. Subpart C-Office of Inspector General &#xA7; 1.70 Overview. This subpart describes the key responsibilities of the Office of Inspector General, the structure of the office, and the authority of the Inspector General. &#xA7; 1.71 Key responsibilities. The Inspector General conducts, supervises, and coordinates audits and investigations; reviews existing and proposed legislation and makes recommendations to the Secretary and Congress concerning their effect on the economy and efficiency of program administration, or the prevention and detection of fraud and abuse; recommends policies for and conducts, supervises, or coordinates other activities of the Department for the purpose of promoting economy and efficiency in program administration, or preventing and detecting fraud and abuse; and keeps the Secretary and the Congress fully and currently informed. &#xA7; 1.72 Structure. This Office is composed of: (a) The Office of the Deputy Inspector General; (b) The Office of the Principal Assistant Inspector General for Investigations; (c) The Office of the Principal Assistant Inspector General for Auditing and Evaluation; (d) The Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Administration; and (e) The Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Legal, Legislative and External Affairs. &#xA7; 1.73 Authority of Inspector General. The Inspector General shall report to and be under the general supervision of the Secretary and Deputy Secretary. The Inspector General has such authority as is provided by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, and as is otherwise provided by law. Authorities provided to the Inspector General by law are reserved to the Inspector General. In accordance with the statutory intent of the Inspector General Act to create an independent and objective unit, the Inspector General is authorized to make such investigations and reports relating to the administration of the programs and operations of the Department as are, in the judgment of the Inspector General, necessary and desirable. Neither the Secretary nor the Deputy Secretary shall prevent or prohibit the Inspector General from initiating, carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation, or from issuing any subpoena during the course of any audit or investigation. &#xA7; 1.74 Delegations to Inspector General. The Inspector General is delegated authority to: (a) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegations of authority granted by the Secretary within the Office of Inspector General, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation. (b) Authorize and approve official travel, including foreign travel and transportation for themselves, their subordinates, and others performing services for, or in cooperation with, the Office of Inspector General. (c) Exercise the authority of the Secretary to resolve informal allegations of discrimination arising in or relating to the Office of Inspector General through Equal Employment Opportunity counseling or the Alternative Dispute Resolution process and to develop and implement affirmative action and diversity plans. (d) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 326(a) to accept gifts of property (other than real property) or services (in carrying out aviation duties and powers), and the authority to accept travel reimbursements from non-federal sources under 31 U.S.C. 1353. (e) Exercise the implied authority to solicit gifts associated with 49 U.S.C. 326(a), notwithstanding the reservation of authority to the Secretary in &#xA7; 1.21. (f) Carry out the emergency preparedness functions assigned to the Secretary by Executive Order 12656 (as amended; see Executive Order 13286) and by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and General Services Administration (FEMA and GSA) as they pertain to the Office of Inspector General, including those relating to continuity of operations, emergency resource management, and training. (g) Determine the existence and amount of indebtedness and the method of collecting repayments from employees and members within the Office of Inspector General and collect repayments accordingly, as provided by 5 U.S.C. 5514. (h) Waive claims of the United States arising out of an erroneous payment to an employee of the Office of Inspector General of pay or allowances, or travel, transportation, or relocation expenses and allowances, and deny requests for waiver of such claims, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5584 and the OMB memorandum, &#x201C;Determination with Respect to Transfer of Functions Pursuant to Public Law 104-316&#x201D; (December 17, 1996). But for claims arising from erroneous payments to current employees, this delegation of authority is limited to claims greater than $500. For claims arising from erroneous payments to former employees, this delegation of authority is not limited by claim amount. Redelegation of this authority may be made only to the principal officials responsible for financial management or such officials' principal assistants. (i) Settle and pay claims by employees of the Office of Inspector General for personal property losses as provided by 31 U.S.C. 3721 (Claims of personnel of agencies and the District of Columbia government for personal property damage or loss). (j) Review and approve for payment any voucher for $25 or less the authority for payment of which is questioned by a certifying or disbursing officer. (k) [Reserved] (l) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 31 U.S.C. 3711 to collect, compromise, suspend collection action on, or terminate claims of the United States which are referred to, or arise out of the activities of, the Office of Inspector General, subject to the limits on that authority imposed by 31 U.S.C. 3711 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR chapter IX. (m) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 28 CFR part 14, related to the administrative disposition of federal tort claims, for claims involving the Office of Inspector General. The Inspector General may request the approval of the Attorney General to adjust, compromise, and settle any such claim if the amount of the adjustment, compromise, or award exceeds $100,000, but only after the General Counsel concurs with the request. If the Inspector General believes that a pending claim presents a novel question of law or of policy, he or she shall coordinate with the General Counsel to obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division. If the Inspector General settles a claim for an amount greater than $50,000, the Inspector General shall prepare a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken and coordinate with the General Counsel before sending a copy of the memorandum to the Director, Federal Torts Claims Act Staff, Torts Branch of the Civil Division, U.S. Department of Justice. (n) Make written requests under subsection (b)(7) of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7), for records maintained by other agencies that are necessary to carry out an authorized law enforcement activity. (o) Administer the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and 49 CFR part 7 (Public Availability of Information) in connection with the records of the Office of the Inspector General. (p) Administer the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and 49 CFR part 10 (Maintenance of and Access to Records Pertaining to Individuals) in connection with the records of the Office of the Inspector General. (q) Exercise the authority of the Secretary over and with respect to any personnel within the Office of Inspector General, except as prescribed by the Secretary or limited by law. (r) Approve payment of recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5753 and 5754. (s) Administer 49 CFR part 9 (Testimony of Employees of the Department and Production of Records in Legal Proceedings) in connection with the records of the Office of Inspector General and testimony of current and former employees of the Office of Inspector General. Subpart D-Operating Administrations &#xA7; 1.80 Overview. This subpart sets forth the key responsibilities of the Operating Administrations, and the delegations of authority from the Secretary of Transportation to the Administrators. &#xA7; 1.81 Delegations to all Administrators. (a) Except as prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation, each Administrator is authorized to: (1) Exercise the authority of the Secretary over and with respect to any personnel within their respective organizations. (2) [Reserved] (3) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary to prescribe regulations under 49 U.S.C. 322(a) with respect to statutory provisions for which authority is delegated by other sections in this part. (4) Carry out the functions of the Secretary concerning environmental enhancement by 49 U.S.C. 303 (Duties of the Secretary of Transportation: Policy on lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, and historic sites) and 23 U.S.C. 138 as they relate to matters within the primary responsibility of each Operating Administration. (5) Carry out the functions of the Secretary under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ), section 176(c) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7506(c)), and related environmental laws as they relate to matters within the primary responsibility of each Operating Administration. (6) Carry out the functions of the Secretary under section 106 of the Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. 470f, as they relate to matters within the primary responsibility of each Operating Administration. (7) Administer FOIA and 49 CFR part 7 (Public Availability of Information) in connection with the records of the Operating Administration. (8) Administer the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and 49 CFR part 10 (Maintenance of and Access to Records Pertaining to Individuals) in connection with the records of the Operating Administration. (9) Make written requests under subsection (b)(7) of the Privacy Act for records maintained by other agencies that are necessary to carry out an authorized law enforcement activity. (10) Carry out the emergency preparedness functions assigned to the Secretary by Executive Order 12656, (as amended; see Executive Order 13286) and by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and General Services Administration (FEMA and GSA) as they pertain to his or her administration, including those relating to continuity of operations, emergency resource management, associated Federal claimant procedures, facilities protection and warfare effects monitoring and reporting, research, stockpiling, financial aid, and training. (11) Enter into inter- and intradepartmental reimbursable agreements other than with the head of another department or agency. This authority may be redelegated only to Office Directors, Regional Directors, District Commanders or other comparable levels and Contracting Officers. (12) Determine the existence and amount of indebtedness and the method of collecting repayments from employees within their respective administrations and collect repayments accordingly, as provided by 5 U.S.C. 5514. Redelegation of this authority may be made only to the principal officials responsible for financial management or such officials' principal assistants. (13) Waive claims of the United States arising out of an erroneous payment to an employee of the Operating Administration of pay or allowances, or travel, transportation, or relocation expenses and allowances, and deny requests for waiver of such claims, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5584 and the OMB memorandum, &#x201C;Determination with Respect to Transfer of Functions Pursuant to Public Law 104-316&#x201D; (December 17, 1996). But for claims arising from erroneous payments to current employees, this delegation of authority is limited to claims greater than $500. For claims arising from erroneous payments to former employees, this delegation of authority is not limited by claim amount. Redelegation of this authority may be made only to the principal officials responsible for financial management or such officials' principal assistants. (14) Settle and pay claims by employees of the Operating Administration for personal property losses as provided by 31 U.S.C. 3721 (Claims of personnel of agencies and the District of Columbia government for personal property damage or loss). This authority may be redelegated only to Office Directors, Regional Directors, or other comparable levels and to those individuals that report to the above officials. (15) Exercise the authority of the Secretary to resolve informal allegations of discrimination arising in or relating to their respective organizations through Equal Employment Opportunity counseling or the Alternative Dispute Resolution process and to develop and implement affirmative action and diversity plans within their respective organizations. With regard to external civil rights programs, each Administrator exercises authority pursuant to statutes, regulations, Executive Orders, or delegations in this subpart to carry out these programs, under the guidance of the Director of the Departmental Office of Civil Rights, including conducting compliance reviews and other activities relating to the enforcement of these statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders. (16) Review and approve for payment any voucher for $25 or less the authority for payment of which is questioned by a certifying or disbursing officer. (17) Authorize and approve official non-foreign travel and transportation for themselves, their subordinates, and others performing services for, or in cooperation with, their Operating Administrations. (18) Exercise the authority of the Secretary to make certifications, findings and determinations under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601, et seq. ) with regard to any rulemaking document for which issuance authority is delegated by other sections in this part. This authority may be redelegated to those officials to whom document issuance authority has been delegated. (19) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 15 U.S.C. 3710(a), which authorizes agencies to permit their laboratories to enter into cooperative research and development agreements. (20) [Reserved] (21) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 31 U.S.C. 3711 to collect, compromise, suspend collection action on, or terminate claims of the United States which are referred to, or arise out of the activities of, the Operating Administration, subject to the limits on that authority imposed by 31 U.S.C. 3711 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR chapter IX. (22) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 28 CFR part 14, related to the administrative disposition of federal tort claims, for claims involving the Operating Administration. The Administrator may request the approval of the Attorney General to adjust, compromise, and settle any such claim if the amount of the adjustment, compromise, or award exceeds $100,000, but only after the General Counsel concurs with the request. If the Administrator believes that a pending claim presents a novel question of law or of policy, he or she shall coordinate with the General Counsel to obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division. If the Administrator settles a claim for an amount greater than $50,000, the Administrator shall prepare a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken and coordinate with the General Counsel before sending a copy of the memorandum to the Director, Federal Torts Claims Act Staff, Torts Branch of the Civil Division, U.S. Department of Justice. (23) Enter into memoranda of agreement with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) in regard to setting and enforcing occupational safety or health standards and whistleblower protection for employees in DOT-regulated industries. The General Counsel shall concur in each memorandum of understanding with OSHA prior to its execution by the Administrator of the Operating Administration concerned. (24) Enter into memoranda of agreement with the Mine Safety Health Administration (MSHA) in regard to setting and enforcing safety standards for employees in DOT-regulated industries while on mine property. The General Counsel shall concur in each memorandum of agreement with MSHA prior to its execution by the Administrator of the Operating Administration concerned. (25) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by Section 329A of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995, Public Law 103-331, 329A, 108 Stat. 2471, 2493 (September 30, 1994), to enter into grants, cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any person, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, any unit of state or local government, any educational institution, and any other entity in execution of the Technology Reinvestment Project authorized under the Defense Conversion, Reinvestment, and Transition Assistance Act of 1992, Public Law 102-484, 106 Stat. 2658 (October 23, 1992), and related legislation. (26) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 40119(b), as implemented by 49 CFR part 15, in coordination with the Office of the General Counsel and the Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response, relating to the determination that information is Sensitive Security Information within their respective organizations. (27) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 326(a) and 31 U.S.C. 1353 to accept, subject to the concurrence of the Operating Administration's Deputy Ethics Official, the following: Gifts of property (other than real property) not exceeding $1,000 in value, gifts of services (in carrying out aviation duties and powers) not exceeding $1,000 in value, and reimbursement of travel expenses from non-federal sources not exceeding $3,000. Acceptance of gifts or travel reimbursement that exceed these limits in value or are otherwise significant may only take place with the additional concurrence of the General Counsel. This delegation extends only to the acceptance of gifts or travel expenses and does not authorize the solicitation of gifts, which is reserved to the Secretary at &#xA7; 1.21. (28) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321), to promulgate rules that adjust civil penalties. (29) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary to implement the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act of 1970 (Uniform Act), 42 U.S.C. Chapter 61, with respect to programs administered by their respective Operating Administrations. Each Operating Administration may prescribe additional Uniform Act guidance that is appropriate to those particular programs, provided that such additional guidance must be consistent with the Uniform Act and 49 CFR part 24. The lead agency for Uniform Act matters is the Federal Highway Administration (see &#xA7; 1.85 and 49 CFR part 24). &#xA7; 1.81a Redelegation by all Administrators. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this part, each Administrator may redelegate and authorize successive redelegations of authority within the organization under that official's jurisdiction. &#xA7; 1.82 The Federal Aviation Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Promulgating and enforcing regulations on all safety matters relating to the operation of airports, the manufacture, operation, and maintenance of aircraft, and the efficiency of the National Airspace System; (b) Planning and supporting the development of an integrated national system of airports, with due consideration of safety, capacity, efficiency, environmental compatibility and sustainability; (c) Administering federal financial assistance programs for airports including airport grants-in-aid; (d) Preserving and enhancing the safety and efficiency of the Nation's air transportation system by implementing NextGen and other technologies, as appropriate; (e) Registering aircraft and recording rights in aircraft; (f) Developing, modifying, testing, and evaluating systems, procedures, facilities, and devices needed for the safe and efficient navigation and traffic control of aircraft; (h) Locating, constructing or installing, maintaining and operating Federal aids to air navigation, wherever necessary; (i) Developing air traffic regulations, and administering air navigation services for control of civil and military air operations within U.S. airspace, as well as administering such air navigation services as the FAA has accepted responsibility for providing in international airspace and the airspace of foreign countries; (j) Promoting aviation safety and efficiency through technical aviation assistance to foreign aviation authorities; (k) Developing strategies to improve runway safety at all commercial service airports; (l) Administering the Continuous Lower Energy, Emissions and Noise program, improving connections to surface transportation, and other efforts to increase the environmental sustainability of the Nation's air transportation systems; (m) Conducting an effective airport technology research program to improve airport safety, efficiency, and sustainability; (n) Exercising the final authority for carrying out all functions, powers, and duties of the Administration in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 106(f) and adjudication in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 40110(d) and that such authorities supersede any conflicting provisions elsewhere in this part. (o) Promoting and encouraging U.S. leadership in commercial space activities, and promulgating and enforcing regulations on safety matters relating to commercial space transportation. &#xA7; 1.83 Delegations to the Federal Aviation Administrator. The Federal Aviation Administrator is delegated authority to: (a) Carry out the following functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (Aviation Programs): (1) Sections 40103(a)(2), relating to the consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board before prescribing regulations or procedures that will have a significant impact on accessibility of commercial airports or commercial air transportation for individuals with disabilities; 40109(c), but only as it relates to the regulation of 49 U.S.C. 46301(b) (smoke alarm device penalties), and 40109(e), relating to maximum flying hours 40113(a) as it relates to the functions vested in the Secretary and delegated in this section; 40114, relating to reports and records requirements; 40115, relating to withholding information from public disclosure; 40116, relating to the prohibition on State taxation as the prohibition may affect an airport sponsor's grant assurances; 40117, relating to passenger facility charges; 40119(b), relating to the issuance of regulations on disclosure of information obtained or developed in ensuring security; and 40127(b) of chapter 401, relating to prohibition on discrimination by private airports; (2) Section 41723 of subchapter I of chapter 417, relating to notice concerning aircraft assembly; (3) Section 44102(b) of chapter 441, relating to defining the term &#x201C;based and primarily used in the United States&#x201D;; (4) Chapter 443, relating to insurance; (5) Chapter 445, relating to facilities, personnel, and research, except section 44502(a)(3) as it relates to authorizing a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government to carry out any duty or power under subsection 44502(a) with the consent of the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality; (6) Chapter 447, relating to safety regulation; (7) Chapter 451, relating to alcohol and controlled substances testing; (8) Subpart IV of Part A of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapters 461-465) relating to the Secretary's authority to enforce and impose penalties under sections of Subtitle VII that have been delegated to the Federal Aviation Administrator in this section; (9) Part B of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapters 471-475) relating to airport development and noise, except 49 U.S.C. 47129(a); (10) Part C of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapters 481-483) relating to financing; and (11) Part E of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapter 501) relating to Buy-American Preferences. (b) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by chapters 509 and 511 (commercial space) of title 51, U.S.C. and coordinate with the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs regarding those functions related to the promotion of the aerospace industry. (c) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by part B of title II of the Clean Air Act, as amended (Pub. L. 91-604, sec. 11, 84 Stat. 1703), and by 40 CFR part 87 as it relates to exemptions from aircraft air pollution standards. (d)(1) Except as delegated to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy by &#xA7; 1.25, carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5121(a), (b), (c), and (d), 5122, 5123, and 5124, relating to the transportation or shipment of hazardous materials by air. (2) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5114, relating to the establishment of procedures for monitoring and enforcing regulations with respect to the transportation of radioactive materials on passenger-carrying aircraft. (3) Participate, with the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, in the Dangerous Goods Panel at the International Civil Aviation Organization, under the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5120. (e) Serve, or designate a representative to serve, as Vice Chairman and alternate Department of Transportation member of the Interagency Group on International Aviation (IGIA) pursuant to the interagency agreement of December 9, 1960, and Executive Order 11382, and provide for the administrative operation of the IGIA Secretariat. (f) Carry out the functions assigned to the Secretary by Executive Order 12465 relating to commercial expendable launch vehicle activities. (g) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1993 (Pub. L. 102-588, 106 Stat 5119, November 4, 1992). &#xA7; 1.84 The Federal Highway Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Improving mobility on our Nation's highways through national leadership, innovation, and program delivery. (b) Developing safety strategies using a data-driven, systematic approach to address safety for motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians from engineering, education, enforcement, and emergency medical services perspectives and coordinating with FMCSA and NHTSA as appropriate. (c) Planning, in cooperation with the States, the nation's highway system. (d) Improving, in cooperation with the States (via the provision of grants), infrastructure condition, safety, mobility and freight movement roads on the National Highway System, including the Interstate System and to other federal-aid roads and other surface transportation infrastructure. (e) Identifying and deploying innovation aimed at shortening project delivery, enhancing the safety of our roadways, and protecting the environment. (f) Surveying and constructing Federal lands transportation facilities, Federal lands access transportation facilities, tribal transportation facilities, defense highways and access roads, and parkways and roads in national parks and other federally-administered areas. (g) Developing and administering uniform State standards for highway safety programs with respect to identification and surveillance of crash locations; highway design, construction, and maintenance, including context sensitive solutions, highway-related aspects of pedestrian safety, and traffic control devices. (h) Administering the Department's National Bridge Inspection Standards and the National Tunnel Inspection Standards to ensure the Nation has safe, well-maintained bridges and tunnels for use by the traveling public. (i) In coordination with NHTSA, RITA, and FMCSA, conducting vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure research. (j) Managing TIFIA funds, 23 U.S.C. 601-609, in conjunction with the TIFIA Joint Program Office, including managing accounting and budgeting activities, and procuring any necessary financial or technical support services for the TIFIA program. (k) Maximizing the positive impacts on the U.S. economy by encouraging domestic manufacturing on highway projects through the enforcement of Buy America provisions. &#xA7; 1.85 Delegations to the Federal Highway Administrator. (a) The Federal Highway Administrator is delegated authority to administer the following provisions of title 23, U.S.C. (Highways): (1) Chapter 1, Federal-Aid Highways, except for: (i) Section 142 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Transit Administrator); (ii) The following sections as they relate to matters within the primary responsibility of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration: 153, 154, 158, 161, 163, and 164; and (iii) Section 167(f) (National Freight Strategic Plan). (2) Chapter 2, Other Highways, except for section 205. (3) Chapter 3, General Provisions (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration), except for section 322. (4) Section 409 of chapter 4, Highway Safety. (5) Chapter 5, Research, Technology, and Education, except for section 508. (6) Chapter 6, Infrastructure Finance, subject to the limitations set forth in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1.33 (Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs) and 1.21 (reservation to the Secretary of final approval of TIFIA credit assistance applications). (b) The Federal Highway Administrator is delegated authority to administer the following provisions of title 49, U.S.C. (Transportation): (1) Section 20134(a) with respect to the laws administered by the Federal Highway Administrator pertaining to highway safety and highway construction; and (2) Sections 31111 and 31112 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration). (3) Section 31314 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration). (c) The Federal Highway Administrator is delegated authority to administer the following laws relating generally to highways: (1) Section 502(c) of the General Bridge Act of 1946, as amended, Public Law 79-601, tit. V, 60 Stat. 847, [33 U.S.C. 525(c)]. (2) Reorganization Plan No. 7 of 1949 (63 Stat. 1070). (3) The Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1954, as amended (Pub. L. 83-350, 68 Stat. 70). (4) The Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956, as amended (Pub. L. 84-627, tit. I, 70 Stat. 374). (5) The Highway Revenue Act of 1956, as amended (Pub. L. 84-627, tit. II, 70 Stat. 374, 387). (6) The Alaska Omnibus Act, as amended (Pub. L. 86-70, 73 Stat. 141). (7) The Act of September 26, 1961, as amended (Pub. L. 87-307, 75 Stat. 670). (8) The Act of April 27, 1962 (Pub. L. 87-441, 76 Stat. 59). (9) The Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1962, as amended (Pub. L. 87-866, 76 Stat. 1145). (10) The Joint Resolution of August 28, 1965, as amended (Pub. L. 89-139, 79 Stat. 578). (11) The Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1966, as amended (Pub. L. 889-574, 80 Stat. 766). (12) The Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968, as amended (Pub. L. 90-495, 82 Stat. 815). (13) The Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1970, as amended (except section 118) (Pub. L. 91-605, 84 Stat. 1713). (14) Sections 103, 104, 111(b), 128(b), 131, 135, 136, 141, 147, 149, 154, 158 through 161, 163, 203, 206, 401, and 402 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973, as amended (Pub. L. 93-87, 87 Stat. 250; Pub. L. 93-643, 88 Stat. 2281). (15) Sections 102(b) (except subparagraph (2)) and (c); 105 (b)(1) and (c); 141; 146; 147; and 152 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-280, 90 Stat. 425). (16) The Highway Beautification Act of 1965, as amended (Pub. L. 89-285, 79 Stat. 1028, 23 U.S.C. 131 et seq., notes). (17) The Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-327, 96 Stat. 1611), except section 6 as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Transit Administrator. (18) The Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982, as amended, (Pub. L. 97-424, 96 Stat. 2097) except: (i) Sections 165 and 531 as they relate to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Transit Administrator; (ii) Sections 105(f), 413; 414(b)(2); 421, 426, and Title III; and (iii) Section 414(b)(1), unless with the concurrence of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator. (19) Sections 103(e), 105(a) through (g), 106(a), and (b), 110(b), 114(d), 117(f), 120(c) and (d), 123(g) and (i), 133(f), 134, 136, 137, 139 through 145, 146(b), 147(c), 149(a) through (f), (h), (i), (k), 151 through 157, 164, and 208 of the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 (Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 132). (20) Sections 105, 107(c) through (e), 123(a) and (b), 124(c), 126(d) through (g), 138(c), 142, 144, 147 through 154, 167, and 171, Title IV, as amended (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administrator), and sections 502-504 of Title V of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-599, 92 Stat. 2689). (21) Sections 201 through 205, 327 through 336, 339, 340, 349, 352, 353, and 408 of the National Highway System Designation Act of 1995 (Pub. L. 104-59, 109 Stat. 568). (22) Sections 1002(e), 1006(h), 1009(c), 1012(b) and (d) through (f), 1015, 1016(g), 1017(c), 1021(c) and (d), 1022(c), 1023(f) through (g), 1032(d), 1038 through 1041, 1044, 1046(d), 1047, 1051, 1057 through 1060, 1072, 1073, 1105, and 6016 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102-240, 105 Stat. 1914). (23) Sections 1108(f) and (g) and 1224 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Pub. L. 105-178, 112 Stat. 107). (24) Sections 1101(a), 1102, 1109(f), 1111(b)(4), 1112, 1115(c), 1116(a) and (b), 1117, 1119(n), 1120(c), 1201, 1301, 1302, 1303, 1304, 1305, 1306, 1308, 1310, 1404, 1408, 1409(a) and (b), 1410, 1411, 1502, 1604, 1803, 1907, 1908, 1910, 1911, 1916, 1917, 1918, 1923, 1928, 1934, 1935, 1937, 1939, 1940, 1941, 1943, 1944, 1945, 1948, 1949, 1950, 1952, 1957, 1959, 1962, 1964, 4404 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administrator), 5101(b), 5202(b)(3)(B), (c), and (d), 5203(e) and (f), 5204(g) and (i), 5304, 5305, 5306, 5307, 5308, 5309, 5502, 5504, 5508, 5511, 5512, 5513(b), (f), (k), and (m) (as (m) relates to (b), (f), and (k)), 5514, 6009(b) (as they relate to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administrator), 6017, 6018, 10210, and 10212 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1144). (25) Sections 1101(a), 1102, 1106(b), 1112(b), 1113(c), 1116, 1123, 1201(b), 1315 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration), 1316 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration), 1317 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration), 1318(a) and (b) (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration), 1323 (a) and (b), 1401(b), (c) and (d), 1405, 1503(c), 1512(b), 1519(a), 1520, 1522, 1523, 1524, 1525, 1526, 1527 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration), 1528, 1529, 1530 (as it relates to matters within the primary responsibility of the Federal Highway Administration), 1533, 1534, 1535, 32801, 32802, and 51001 of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405). (d) The Federal Highway Administrator is delegated authority to: (1) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary of Transportation by section 601 of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-508, 106 Stat. 3289) relating to construction of the Page Avenue Extension Project in Missouri. (2) Carry out the functions of the Secretary under the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, 40 U.S.C. Subtitle IV. (3) Carry out the Act of September 21, 1966, Public Law 89-599, relating to certain approvals concerned with a compact between the States of Missouri and Kansas. (4) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5 (as it relates to bridges, other than railroad bridges, not over navigable waters), and section 8(a) (as it relates to all bridges other than railroad bridges) of the International Bridge Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-434, 86 Stat. 731) [33 U.S.C. 535c and 535e(a)]. (5) Carry out the Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended (Pub. L. 89-564, 80 Stat. 731) for highway safety programs, research, and development relating to highway design, construction and maintenance, traffic control devices, identification and surveillance of crash locations, and highway-related aspects of pedestrian safety. (6) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 20134(a) with respect to the laws administered by the Federal Highway Administrator pertaining to highway safety and highway construction (7) Prescribe regulations, as necessary, at part 24 of this title, to implement the Uniform Act, 42 U.S.C. Chapter 61, and to act as the lead agency in carrying out all other functions vested in the Secretary by the Uniform Act, in coordination with the Under Secretary. (8) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by sections 101, 118, 120(b), 123 and 124 of the Federal-Aid Highway Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-643, January 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2281). (9) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary of Transportation by section 114 of Part C of the Paperwork Reduction Reauthorization Act of 1986 (contained in the Act Making Continuing Appropriations for Fiscal Year 1987 and for Other Purposes, Public Law 99-591, 100 Stat. 3341, 2241-349), relating to construction of Interstate Highway H-3 in Hawaii. (10) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by Public Law 98-229, 98 Stat. 55, insofar as it relates to apportioning certain funds for construction of the Interstate Highway System in Fiscal Year 1985, apportioning certain funds for Interstate substitute highway projects, and increasing amounts available for emergency highway relief. (11) Carry out all of the functions vested in the Secretary under section 324 of the Fiscal Year 1986 Department of Transportation Appropriations Act (Pub. L. 99-190, 99 Stat. 1288), notwithstanding the reservation of authority under &#xA7; 1.21. (12) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary of Transportation by section 505 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976, as amended, (Pub. L. 94-210, 90 Stat. 31) relating to the Alameda Corridor Project in consultation with the Federal Railroad Administrator. (13) Act as the lead DOT agency in matters relating to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Public Law 91-190, 83 Stat. 852 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ] pertinent to the authority vested in the Secretary to establish, operate, and manage the Nationwide Differential Global Positioning System (NDGPS) by section 346 of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (Pub. L. 105-66, 111 Stat. 1425). (14) Exercise the responsibilities of the Secretary under 49 U.S.C. 309 (high speed ground transportation). (15) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 201(4)(d) and (e) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, as amended (Pub. L. 96-487, 94 Stat. 2377) [16 U.S.C. 410hh(4)(d) and (e)]. &#xA7; 1.86 The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Managing program and regulatory activities, including administering laws and promulgating and enforcing regulations on safety matters relating to motor carrier safety; (b) Carrying out motor carrier registration and authority to regulate household goods transportation; (c) Developing strategies for improving commercial motor vehicle, operator, and carrier safety and administering grants to implement these strategies; (d) Inspecting records and equipment of commercial motor carriers, and investigating accidents and reporting violations of motor carrier safety regulations; (e) Carrying out research, development, and technology transfer activities to promote safety of operation and equipment of motor vehicles for the motor carrier transportation program; and (f) Carrying out an effective communications and outreach program which includes providing relevant safety data to the public. &#xA7; 1.87 Delegations to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator is delegated authority to: (a) Carry out the following functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C., Subtitle IV, part B: (1) Chapter 131, relating to general provisions on transportation policy; (2) Chapter 133, relating to administrative provisions; (3) Chapter 135, relating to jurisdiction; (4) Sections 13704 and 13707 of chapter 137, relating to rates, routes, and services; (5) Chapter 139, relating to registration and financial responsibility requirements, except section 13907(d)(2); (6) Chapter 141, relating to operations of motor carriers; (7) Sections 14501, 14502, and 14504a relating to Federal-State relations, and section 14506 relating to identification of vehicles. (8) Sections 14701 through 14705, 14707, 14708, 14710, and 14711 of chapter 147, relating to enforcement remedies, investigations and motor carrier liability; and (9) Sections 14901 through 14913, 14915, and 14916 of chapter 149 relating to civil and criminal penalties for violations of 49 U.S.C. subtitle IV, part B. (b) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by sections 104 and 204 of the ICC Termination Act of 1995, Public Law 104-88, 109 Stat. 803, relating to self-insurance rules and a savings clause. (c) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 42 U.S.C. 4917, relating to procedures for the inspection, surveillance and measurement of commercial motor vehicles for compliance with interstate motor carrier noise emission standards and related enforcement activities including the promulgation of necessary regulations. (d) Carry out the following functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by chapter 51 of title 49, U.S.C.: (1) Except as delegated to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy by &#xA7; 1.25, carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5121(a), (b), (c), and (d), 5122, 5123, and 5124, relating to the transportation or shipment of hazardous materials by highway. (2) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5105(e), relating to inspections of motor vehicles carrying hazardous material; 49 U.S.C. 5109, relating to motor carrier safety permits, except subsection (f); 49 U.S.C. 5112, relating to highway routing of hazardous materials; 49 U.S.C. 5113, relating to unsatisfactory safety ratings of motor carriers; 49 U.S.C. 5119, relating to uniform forms and procedures; and 49 U.S.C. 5125(a) and (c)-(f), relating to preemption determinations or waivers of preemption of hazardous materials highway routing requirements. (e) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by: (1) Chapter 313 of 49, U.S.C., relating to commercial motor vehicle operators; and (2) Section 4123(c), (d) and (e) of SAFETEA-LU relating to grants, funding, and contract authority and availability, respectively, for commercial driver's license information system modernization. (f) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by subchapters I, III, and IV of chapter 311, title 49, U.S.C., and 49 U.S.C. 31111, relating to commercial motor vehicle programs, safety regulation, and international activities, except that the authority to promulgate safety standards for commercial motor vehicles and equipment subsequent to initial manufacture is limited to standards that are not based upon and similar to a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard promulgated under chapter 301 of title 49, U.S.C. (g) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5701 relating to food transportation inspections of commercial motor vehicles. (h) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority delegated to the Secretary in section 2(d)(2) of Executive Order 12777, as amended, with respect to highway transportation, relating to the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge, the review and approval of response plans, and the authorization of motor carriers, subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Pub. L. 87-88, as amended [33 U.S.C. 1321], to operate without approved response plans. (i) Carry out chapter 315 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to motor carrier safety. (j) Carry out 49 U.S.C. 502, 503, 504, 506, and 523 to the extent they relate to motor carriers, motor carriers of migrant workers, and motor private carriers; 49 U.S.C. 507 to the extent it relates to motor carriers, motor carries of migrant workers, motor private carriers, or freight forwarders; and 49 U.S.C. 505, 508, 521(b), and 525. (k) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 502(a)(1)(A). (l) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the following sections of SAFETEA-LU: (1) Section 4105(b)(1) relating to the study concerning predatory tow truck operations; (2) Section 4126, relating to the commercial vehicle information systems and networks deployment program; (3) Section 4127, relating to outreach and education; (4) Section 4128, relating to grants under the safety data improvement program; (5) Section 4130-4133, amending section 229 of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999 (49 U.S.C. 31136 note) relating to the operators of vehicles transporting agricultural commodities and farm supplies, and hours of service for miscellaneous vehicle operators; (6) Section 4134 (49 U.S.C. 31301 note), relating to the grant program for persons to train operators of commercial motor vehicles; (7) [Reserved] (8) Section 4136 relating to interstate vans; (9) Section 4138 relating to high risk carrier compliance (49 U.S.C. 31144 note); (10) Section 4139(a)(1), relating to the training of and outreach to State personnel; section (b)(1) relating to a review of Canadian and Mexican compliance with Federal motor vehicles safety standards; and the first sentence of section (b)(2) relating to the report concerning the findings and conclusions of the review required by section (b)(1) (see 49 U.S.C. 31100 note); (11) Section 4143, granting authority to stop commercial motor vehicles, 18 U.S.C. 3064; (12) Section 4144, relating to a motor carrier safety advisory committee; (13) [Reserved] (14) Section 4147, relating to emergency conditions requiring immediate response (amending section 229 of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999 (49 U.S.C. 31136 note); (15) Section 4213, relating to the establishment of a working group for the development of practices and procedures to enhance Federal-State relations (49 U.S.C. 14710 note); (16) Section 4214, relating to the establishment of a system for collecting consumer complaint information and issuing regulations related to reporting requirements under the system (49 U.S.C. 14701 note); and (17) Section 4308, granting authority to adopt regulations to carry out SAFETEA-LU, Title IV, subtitle C (49 U.S.C. 13902 note). (m) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the following sections of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405): (1) Section 32101(b) concerning proficiency examination (49 U.S.C. 13902 note). (2) Section 32101(c) concerning conforming amendments to proficiency examinations (49 U.S.C. 31144 note). (3) Section 32101(d) concerning agricultural and farm transportation exemption (49 U.S.C. 31136 note). (4) Section 32104 concerning a study of financial responsibility requirements (49 U.S.C. 13903 note). (5) Section 32206 concerning a rental truck accident study. (6) Section 32301(a) requiring an hours of service study. (7) Section 32302(c)(2) regarding the establishment of state licensing agency oversight (49 U.S.C. 31149 note). (8) Section 32303(b) relating to the establishment of a driver record notification system (49 U.S.C. 31304 note). (9) Section 32303(c) relating to a plan for national notification system. (10) Section 32308 regarding a study, plan, report and implementation of accelerated veteran's licensing procedures (49 U.S.C. 31301 note). (11) Section 32603(i) relating to the administration of grant programs (49 U.S.C. 31100). (12) Section 32605 related to a report on the commercial vehicle information system and networks. (12) Sections 32702, 32707(b), 32708, 32709, 32710, and 32711 related to the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act of 2012 (49 U.S.C. 31136 note). (13) Section 32918(b) relating to broker and forwarder financial responsibility rulemaking requirement (49 U.S.C. 13906 note). (14) Section 32934 related to exemptions from requirements for covered farm vehicles (49 U.S.C. 31136 note). &#xA7; 1.88 The Federal Railroad Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Regulating safety functions pertaining to railroads; (b) Conducting research and development activity in support of safer and more efficient rail transportation; (c) Investigating and issuing reports concerning collisions, derailments, and other railroad accidents resulting in serious injury to persons or to the property of a railroad; (d) Developing safety strategies to combat the causes of collisions, derailments, and other railroad accidents, as well as to reduce overall risk in the Nation's rail systems; (e) Promoting and strengthening the national rail system, including freight rail and high speed and higher performing intercity passenger rail. (f) Providing financial assistance, including grants, loans and loan guarantees, for rail freight and intermodal development, as well as high-speed and intercity passenger rail development; (g) Maximizing the positive impacts on the U.S. economy by encouraging domestic manufacturing on rail projects through the enforcement of Buy America provisions; and (h) Strengthening local communities by supporting station-area development and strong connections among rail passenger service, intercity bus, local transit, bicycle/pedestrian, and airport facilities. &#xA7; 1.89 Delegations to the Federal Railroad Administrator. The Federal Railroad Administrator is delegated authority to: (a) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. Subtitle V, Part A (Safety, chapter 201 et seq. ), Part B (Assistance, chapter 221 et seq. ), Part C (Passenger Transportation, chapter 241 et seq. ), Part D (High-speed Rail, chapter 261), and section 28101 of Part E, relating to the law enforcement authority of railroad police officers; except 49 U.S.C. 20134 with respect to highway, traffic, and motor vehicle safety and highway construction. (b) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-432, Div. A, 122 Stat. 4848). (c) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-432, Div. B, 122 Stat. 4907), except Title VI (122 Stat. 4968) as it relates to capital and preventive maintenance projects for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. (d) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5 (as it relates to railroad bridges not over navigable waterways) and section 8(a) (as it relates to railroad bridges) of the International Bridge Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-434, 86 Stat. 731) (33 U.S.C. 535c and 535e(a)). (e) Exercise the administrative powers vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. Subtitle I, Chapter 5 (section 501 et seq. ) pertaining to railroad safety and 49 U.S.C. 103 (Federal Railroad Administration). (f) Promote and undertake research and development relating to rail matters generally (49 U.S.C. Chapter 3 (section 301 et seq ). and 49 U.S.C. 102). (g) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 45 U.S.C. Ch. 15 (section 601 et seq. ) with respect to emergency rail services, except the authority to make findings required by 45 U.S.C. 662(a) and the authority to sign guarantees of certificates issued by trustees. (h) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 45 U.S.C. chapter 17 (section 801 et seq. ) with respect to railroad revitalization and regulatory reform and the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing program. (i) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 45 U.S.C. chapter 21 (section 1201 et seq. ) related to the Alaska Railroad transfer. (j) Except as delegated to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy by &#xA7; 1.25, carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5121-5124 relating to the transportation or shipment of hazardous materials by railroad. (k) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 7 of Executive Order 12580 (delegating sections 108 and 109, respectively, of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 as amended (49 U.S.C. 9615 et seq. ), insofar as they relate to rolling stock. (l) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 33 U.S.C. 493, relating to disputes over the terms and compensation for use of railroad bridges built under that statute. (m) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5701 with respect to transportation of food and other products by railroad. (n) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 322 (Magnetic Levitation Transportation Technology Deployment Program). (o) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by sections 1307 (see note to 23 U.S.C. 322), and 1946 of SAFETEA-LU as they relate to deployment of magnetic levitation transportation projects and a study of rail transportation and regulation. (p) Carry out the function vested in the Secretary by the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 1163), which relates to the nomination of trustees for rail carriers in reorganization, with the concurrence of the Office of the General Counsel. (q) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 327, as it relates to railroad projects. (r) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the sections 1318(d) and 1534 of Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405), as they relate to railroads. (s) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 2(d)(2) of Executive Order 12777, with respect to rail transportation, relating to the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge, the review and approval of response plans, and the authorization of railroads to operate without approved response plans. &#xA7; 1.90 The Federal Transit Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Providing grants that support the development of safe, comprehensive and coordinated public transportation systems; (b) Creating and implementing a national public transportation safety program that includes the development of safety practices and standards; (c) Assisting public transportation systems to achieve and maintain their infrastructure, equipment and vehicles in a state of good repair; (d) Promoting the environmental benefits of public transportation through continuing, cooperative, and comprehensive planning that improves the performance of the intermodal transportation system. (e) Supporting research, development, demonstration, and deployment projects dedicated to assisting in the delivery of safe, efficient and effective public transportation service; (f) Supporting, in coordination with FHWA and FRA, strong connections between public transportation and other modes of transportation, including bicycle/pedestrian facilities and station-area development that strengthen local communities; and (g) Maximizing the positive impacts on the U.S. economy by encouraging domestic manufacturing on transit projects through the enforcement of Buy America provisions. &#xA7; 1.91 Delegations to the Federal Transit Administrator. The Federal Transit Administrator is delegated authority to carry out the following: (a) Chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, and notes thereto. (b) Sections 3 and 9 through 15 of the National Capital Transportation Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-143, 83 Stat. 320), as amended (DC Code, section 9-1101.01 et seq. ). (c) Sections of title 23, United States Code, and notes thereto that involve public transportation projects, including those provisions that pertain to planning, environmental reviews and use of historic resources for public transportation projects. (d) Section 303 of title 49, United States Code, as it involves public transportation projects. (e) The following sections of Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405): (1) Sections 1315 [23 U.S.C. 109 note], 1316 [23 U.S.C. 109 note], 1317 [23 U.S.C. 109 note], 1318 [23 U.S.C. 109 note], and 1321, as they relate to public transit projects; and (2) Sections 20005(b) [49 U.S.C. 5303 note], 20008(b) [49 U.S.C. 5309 note], 20013(b) [49 U.S.C. 5315 note], 20017(b) [49 U.S.C. 5324 note], 20021(b), and 20025(b) [49 U.S.C. 5335 note]. (f) Section 601 of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-432, Div. B). &#xA7; 1.92 The Maritime Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Fostering the development and maintenance of a United States merchant marine sufficient to meet the needs of the national security and of the domestic and foreign commerce of the United States; (b) Operating the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in order to train officers for the Nation's merchant marine; (c) Promoting development of ports and intermodal transportation systems through investments in port infrastructure via grant programs and America's Marine Highway program; (d) Promoting the growth and modernization of the U.S. merchant marine and U.S. shipyards by administering loan and guarantee programs; (e) Overseeing the administration of cargo preference statutes; (f) Maintaining custody of, operating, and preserving ships in the National Defense Reserve Fleet as well as other vessels under the custody of MARAD and managing, maintaining and operating its Ready Reserve Force component; (g) Conducting research and development to improve and promote the waterborne commerce of the United States. &#xA7; 1.93 Delegations to the Maritime Administrator. The Maritime Administrator is delegated authority to: (a) Carry out the functions and exercise the authorities vested in the Secretary under Subtitle V of title 46, U.S.C., except for 46 U.S.C. 51303 and 55601(c) and (d); (b) Carry out the functions and exercise the authorities vested in the Secretary under Subtitle III of title 46, U.S.C.; (c) Carry out the functions and exercise the authorities vested in the Secretary under the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 1735 et seq. ); (d) Carry out the functions and exercise the authorities vested in the Secretary under 50 U.S.C. App 1744 with respect to the National Shipping Authority; (e) Exercise the authority vested in the Administrator of General Services by the Act of June 1, 1948, Public Law 80-566, 62 Stat. 281, 40 U.S.C. 318-318c and the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, Public Law 81-152, 63 Stat. 377, and delegated to the Secretary of Transportation by the Administrator of General Services on March 23, 2000, relating to the enforcement of laws for the protection of property and persons at the United States Merchant Marine Academy, located in Kings Point, New York. This may be accomplished through appointment of uniformed personnel as special police, establishment of rules and regulations governing conduct on the affected property, and execution of agreements with other Federal, State, or local authorities. (f) Carry out the functions and exercise the authorities vested in the Secretary by section 3(d) of the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (33 U.S.C. 1902(d)) as it relates to ships owned or operated by the Maritime Administration when engaged in noncommercial service; (g) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 40 U.S.C. 554 relating to authority to convey surplus real property to public entities for use in the development or operation of port facilities; (h) Carry out the following powers and duties and exercise the authorities vested in the Secretary by the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, Public Law 93-627, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1501 et seq. ): (1) Section 4: The authority to issue, transfer, amend, or reinstate a license for the construction and operation of a deepwater port (33 U.S.C. 1503(b)); (2) Section 4: The authority to process applications for the issuance, transfer, amendment, or reinstatement of a license for the construction and operation of a deepwater port (33 U.S.C. 1503(b)), in coordination with the Commandant of the Coast Guard; (3) Section 5(h)(2): Approval of fees charged by adjacent coastal States for use of a deepwater port and directly related land-based facilities (33 U.S.C. 1504(h)(2)); (4) Section 4: Make Adjacent Coastal State designations pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1508(a)(2); (5) Section 11: In collaboration with the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs and the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, consultation with the Secretary of State relating to international actions and cooperation in the economic, trade and general transportation policy aspects of the ownership and operation of deepwater ports (33 U.S.C. 1510); (6) Section 16(b): Submission of notice of the commencement of a civil suit (33 U.S.C. 1515(b)); (7) Section 16(c): Intervention in any civil action to which the Secretary is not a party (33 U.S.C. 1515(c)); (8) Sections 8(b), 12: Authority to request the Attorney General to seek the suspension or termination of a deepwater port license and to initiate a proceeding before the Surface Transportation Board (33 U.S.C. 1507, 1511); (i) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by section 109 of the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-295, 116 Stat. 2064, 46 U.S.C. 70101 note, to provide training for maritime security professionals; (j) Exercise all the powers of the Secretary under 49 U.S.C. 336 with respect to civil penalties; (k) Carry out all of the duties, authorities and powers of the Secretary under the Reefs for Marine Life Conservation law, 16 U.S.C. 1220 et seq. ; (l) In consultation and coordination with the Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response, carry out the functions under the Defense Production Act of 1950, Public Law 81-774, 64 Stat. 798, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2061 et seq. ), that were vested in the Secretary by Executive Order 13603 (&#x201C;National Defense Resources Preparedness&#x201D;) as such authorities relate to the use of sealift support and port facilities, and other maritime industry related facilities and services, and maritime-related voluntary agreements pursuant to Section 708 of the Act; (m) Carry out the functions related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet vested in the Secretary pursuant to 50 U.S.C. App. 1744; (n) Carry out all of the duties, authorities and powers of the Secretary under the following statutes: (1) 10 U.S.C. 2218, the National Defense Sealift Fund; (2) 40 U.S.C. 3134, Bond waiver authority for certain contracts; (3) 46 U.S.C. 501(b), Waiver of navigation and vessel-inspection laws and determination of non-availability of qualified U.S. flag vessels; (4) 46 U.S.C. 3316, granting authority to appoint a representative to Executive Board of the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS); (5) 46 U.S.C. 12119(a)(5), authority to waive or reduce the qualified proprietary cargo requirements and determine citizenship; (6) 50 U.S.C. 196, Emergency foreign vessel acquisition; purchase and requisition of vessels lying idle in United States waters; (7) 50 U.S.C. 197, Voluntary purchase or charter agreement; (8) 50 U.S.C. 198, granting authority over requisitioned vessels; (o) Carry out all of the duties, authorities and powers of the Secretary with respect to 16 U.S.C. 1220 et seq. (use of obsolete ships as reefs for marine life conservation); (p) Carry out all of the duties, powers and authorities delegated to the Secretary of Transportation by the Administrator of General Services with respect to the leasing and management of property under 41 CFR 102-72.30, Delegations of Authority; (q) Carry out all of the duties, authorities and powers vested in the Secretary by 46 U.S.C. 70101 note, to provide training for maritime security professionals; (r) Carry out the duties, authorities and powers of the Secretary under the following statutes: (1) Title XV, Subtitle B of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, Public Law 101-624 (104 Stat. 3359, 3665), 7 U.S.C. 1421 and Chapter 553 of Title 46, U.S.C., authorizing the Secretary to designate &#x201C;American Great Lakes&#x201D; vessels that are exempt from the restrictions relating to the carriage of preference cargoes; (2) 46 U.S.C. 2302(e) (determination of substandard vessels); (3) Section 304(a) of Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2006, 33 U.S.C. 1503(i), a program to promote liquefied natural gas tanker transportation; (4) Section 306 of Public Law 111-281, concerning the phaseout of vessels supporting oil and gas development; (s) Carry out the functions and exercise the authorities vested in the President by Section 1019 of John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Pub. L. 109-364) and delegated to the Secretary by the President; (t) Lead efforts pertaining to civil emergency planning for sealift support for North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) operations, including coordinating DOT representation on sealift-related committees, in coordination with the Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response; (u) Carry out the duties, functions, authorities, and powers of the Secretary under 49 U.S.C. 109(e), (f), (h), (j)(3); (v) Carry out all of the duties, authorities, and powers of the Secretary of Transportation, with respect to matters involving the Clarification Act, Public Law 78-17, 57 Stat. 45, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 1291); (w) Carry out all of the duties, authorities, and powers of the Secretary under 46 U.S.C. 12102(d). &#xA7; 1.94 The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Is responsible for: (a) In highway safety, setting uniform guidelines for a coordinated national highway safety formula grant program carried out by the States and local communities; conducting research and development activities, including demonstration projects and the collection and analysis of highway and motor vehicle safety data and related information; administering highway safety grant programs to encourage State efforts in such areas as occupant protection, impaired and distracted driving, traffic safety data information system improvements, motorcyclist safety, child safety restraints, and graduated driver's licensing; determining State compliance with highway traffic safety law requirements; administering a nationwide high visibility enforcement program; administering the National Driver Register; and leading and coordinating efforts to establish, expand, and improve State, local, tribal, and regional emergency medical services and 9-1-1 systems. (b) In motor vehicle safety, establishing and enforcing safety standards and regulations for the manufacture and importation of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment; conducting research, development, and testing concerning motor vehicle safety, including vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure technologies and other new or advanced vehicle technologies; and investigating safety-related defects and non-compliance in motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment and administering related recalls. (c) In automobile fuel economy, establishing automobile fuel economy standards for passenger and non-passenger automobiles and fuel efficiency standards for medium and heavy vehicles. (d) In consumer protection and information, establishing requirements and carrying out programs for passenger motor vehicle information, such as the New Car Assessment Program; bumper standards for passenger motor vehicles; odometer requirements; and passenger motor vehicle theft prevention standards. &#xA7; 1.95 Delegations to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator is delegated authority to: (a) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under chapters 301, 303, 321, 323, 325, 327, 329, and 331, of Title 49, U.S.C., except for 49 U.S.C. 32916(b). (b) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 20134(a) with respect to laws administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration pertaining to highway, traffic and motor vehicle safety. (c) Carry out, in coordination with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator, the authority vested in the Secretary by subchapter III of chapter 311 of title 49, U.S.C., to promulgate safety standards for commercial motor vehicles and equipment subsequent to initial manufacture when the standards are based upon and similar to a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard promulgated, either simultaneously or previously, under chapter 301 of title 49, U.S.C. (d) Carry out the Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended (Pub. L. 89-564, 80 Stat. 731), for highway safety programs, research, and development except those relating to highway design, construction and maintenance, traffic control devices, identification and surveillance of crash locations, and highway-related aspects of pedestrian safety. (e) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under chapter 4 of title 23, U.S.C., except for 23 U.S.C. 409. (f) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary for the following provisions of title 23, U.S.C. (with respect to matters within the primary responsibility of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration): 153, 154, 158, 161, 163, 164, and 313 (Buy America). (g) Carry out the consultation functions vested in the Secretary by Executive Order 11912, as amended (&#x201C;Delegation of Authorities Relating to Energy Policy and Conservation&#x201D;) relating to automobiles. (h) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by section 210(2) of the Clean Air Act, Public Law 90-148, as amended [42 U.S.C. 7544(2)]. (i) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the following sections of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, Public Law 109-59: (1) Section 1906 [23 U.S.C. 402 note], relating to the grant program to prohibit racial profiling; (2) Section 2010 [23 U.S.C. 402 note], relating to motorcyclist safety; (3) Section 2011 [23 U.S.C. 405 note], relating to child safety and child booster seat incentive grants; (4) Section 10202 [42 U.S.C. 300d-4], relating to emergency medical services, as amended by section 31108 of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, Public Law 112-141; (5) Section 10305(b) [49 U.S.C. 30101 note], relating to the publication of non-traffic incident data collection; and (6) Section 10309(a), relating to the testing of 15-passenger van safety. (j) Carry out the following functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-140): (1) Section 106 [49 U.S.C. 32902 note], relating to the continued applicability of existing standards; (2) Section 107 [49 U.S.C. 32902 note], relating to the National Academy of Sciences studies; (3) Section 108, relating to the National Academy of Sciences study of medium-duty and heavy-duty truck fuel economy; (4) Section 110 [49 U.S.C. 32908 note], relating to the periodic review of accuracy of fuel economy labeling; (5) Section 113 [49 U.S.C. 32904 note], relating to the exemption from separate calculation requirement; (6) Section 131(b)(2) and (c)(1) [42 U.S.C. 17011(b)(2), (c)(1)], relating to the Plug-in Electric Drive Vehicle Program; (7) Section 225(a), relating to the study of optimization of flexible fueled vehicles to use E-85 fuel; (8) Section 227(a), relating to the study of optimization of biogas used in natural gas vehicles; (9) Section 242 [42 U.S.C. 17051], relating to renewable fuel dispenser requirements; and (10) Section 248(a) [42 U.S.C. 17054(a)], relating to biofuels distribution and advanced biofuels infrastructure. (k) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under section 7103 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, Public Law 105-178. (l) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under sections 3(d), 10, 11 and 13 through 17 [uncodified provisions] of the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (TREAD) Act, Public Law 106-414. (m) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under Anton's Law, Public Law 107-318. (n) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under the Cameron Gulbransen Kids Transportation Safety Act of 2007 or the K.T. Safety Act of 2007, Public Law 110-189. (o) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under the Pedestrian Safety Enhancement Act of 2010, Public Law 111-373. (p) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the following sections of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, Public Law 112-141: (1) Sections 31101(d) and (f) (23 U.S.C. 402 note), Authorization of Appropriations; (2) Sections 31203(b), Civil Penalty Criteria Rule, 31301, Public Availability of Recall Information, 31302, NHTSA Outreach to Manufacturer, Dealer, and Mechanic Personnel, 31309(a), Study of Crash Data Collection, 31401, NHTSA Electronics, Software, and Engineering Expertise, 31402, Electronics Systems Performance, 31501, Child Safety Seats, 31502, Child Restraint Anchorage Systems, 31503, Rear Seat Belt Reminders, 31504, Unattended Passenger Reminders, 31505, New Deadline, and 31601, Rulemaking on Visibility of Agricultural Equipment; (3) Section 32201, Crashworthiness Standards; and (4) Sections 32703, Regulations for Improved Occupant Protection, Passenger Evacuation, and Crash Avoidance, 32704, Fire Prevention and Mitigation, 32705, Occupant Protection, Collision Avoidance, Fire Causation, and Fire Extinguisher Research and Testing, and 32706, Concurrence of Research and Rulemaking. (q) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary to implement section 3(g)-(h) of the Automobile Information Disclosure Act (Pub. L. 85-506, 72 Stat. 325), as amended (15 U.S.C. 1232(g)-(h)). &#xA7; 1.96 The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Pipelines. (1) Administering a national program of safety in natural gas and hazardous liquid pipeline transportation including identifying pipeline safety concerns, developing uniform safety standards, and promulgating and enforcing safety regulations; (2) Increasing the gas and liquid pipeline industry's focus on safety beyond compliance with minimum standards, with particular attention to developing strong safety cultures in regulated entities; (3) Enhancing information awareness systems at the State and local levels to reduce pipeline damage from excavation and providing grants to support these systems; and (4) Encouraging the timely replacement of aging and deteriorating pipelines in distribution systems, especially in areas with high potential negative consequences to public safety and the environment. (b) Hazardous materials. (1) Administering a national program of safety, including security, in multi-modal hazardous materials transportation including identifying hazardous materials safety concerns, developing uniform safety standards, and promulgating and enforcing safety and security regulations; and (2) Conducting outreach and provide available grants assistance to increase awareness and emergency preparedness. &#xA7; 1.97 Delegations to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrator. The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrator is delegated responsibility to: (a) Pipelines. (1) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under chapter 601 of title 49, U.S.C. (2) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act, as amended (30 U.S.C. 185(a) and 30 U.S.C. 185(w)(3)). (3) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under section 21 of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1520) relating to the establishment, enforcement and review of regulations concerning the safe construction, operation or maintenance of oil or natural gas pipelines on Federal lands and the Outer Continental Shelf. (4) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5 (as it relates to pipelines not over navigable waterways) and section 8(a) (as it relates to pipelines) of the International Bridge Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-434, 86 Stat. 731) (33 U.S.C. 535c and 535e(a)). (5) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq. ) with respect to the establishment, enforcement and review of regulations concerning pipeline safety. (6) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 7 of Executive Order 12580 (delegating sections 108 and 109, respectively, of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 as amended (49 U.S.C. 9615 et seq. ), insofar as they relate to pipelines. (7) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 60301 as it relates to pipeline safety user fees. (8) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 6101 et seq. as it relates to pipeline damage prevention One Call programs. (9) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-355, 116 Stat. 2985). (10) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (Pub. L. 112-90). (b) Hazardous materials. Except as delegated to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy by &#xA7; 1.25: (1) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5121(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e), 5122, 5123, and 5124, with particular emphasis on the shipment of hazardous materials and the manufacture, fabrication, marking, maintenance, reconditioning, repair or test of multi-modal containers that are represented, marked, certified, or sold for use in the transportation of hazardous materials; and (2) Participate, with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, in the Dangerous Goods Panel at the International Civil Aviation Organization, under the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5120; and (3) Carry out, in coordination with the Administrators of the Federal Aviation Administration (for matters relating to the transport of hazardous materials by aircraft), the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (for matters relating to the transport of hazardous materials by public highway), and the Federal Railroad Administration (for matters relating to the transport of hazardous materials by rail), the functions vested in the Secretary by all other provisions of the Federal hazardous material transportation law (49 U.S.C. 5101 et seq. ) except as delegated by &#xA7;&#xA7; 1.83(d)(2) and (3) (FAA) and 1.87(d)(2) (FMCSA) and by paragraph 2(99) of Department of Homeland Security Delegation No. 0170. (4) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by sections 33005 (49 U.S.C. 5121 note), 33006, 33008 (49 U.S.C. 5121 note), 33009(b)(2) (49 U.S.C. 5121 note), and 33012 (49 U.S.C. 5117 note) of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405). (c) Exercise the authority delegated to the Secretary in the following sections of Executive Order 12777: (1) Section 2(b)(2) relating to the establishment of procedures, methods, equipment and other requirements to prevent discharges from, and to contain oil and hazardous substances in, pipelines, motor carriers, and railroads; and (2) Section 2(d)(2) relating to the issuance of regulations requiring the owners or operators of pipelines, motor carriers, and railroads, subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321 et seq. ), to prepare and submit response plans. For pipelines subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, this authority includes the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge, the review and approval of response plans, and the authorization of pipelines to operate without approved response plans. &#xA7; 1.98 The Research and Innovative Technology Administration. Is responsible for: (a) Coordinating, facilitating, and reviewing the Department's research and development programs and activities, except as related to NHTSA; (b) After consultation with Operating Administration and OST offices, making recommendations to the Secretary on all Operating Administration and OST research budgets; (c) Providing leadership on technical, navigation, communication, and systems engineering activities, and spectrum management on behalf of the civil and civilian PNT communities; (d) Directing and administering university transportation research grants; (e) In coordination with FHWA, NHTSA, and FMCSA, conducting vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure research; (f) Advancing Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) research and deployment of real-time multi-modal travel information for travelers, carriers, and public agencies; (g) Providing oversight of the activities of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, the ITS Joint Program Office, the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, and the Transportation Safety Institute; and (h) Providing technical support to advance the mission of the Secretary's Safety Council. &#xA7; 1.99 Delegations to the Research and Innovative Technology Administrator. The Research and Innovative Technology Administrator is delegated authority for the following: (a) Coordination of departmental research and development programs and activities. (1) Coordinate, facilitate, and review all departmental research and development programs and activities, except those carried out by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, as described in section 4(b) of the Norman Y. Mineta Research and Special Programs Improvement Act (Pub. L. 108-426, 118 Stat. 2423). (2) After consultation with Operating Administration and OST offices, RITA shall make recommendations to the Secretary on all Operating Administration and OST research budgets. (b) Science and technology. (1) With respect to scientific and technological matters, serve as principal advisor to the Secretary and representative of the Department to the academic community, the private sector, professional organizations, and other federal, state and local government agencies. (2) Serve as principal liaison official for the Department of Transportation with the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President, the National Science and Technology Council, and the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology. (3) Serve as primary official responsible for coordination and oversight of the Department's implementation of section 2 of the Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (15 U.S.C. 3710a), relating to the transfer of Federal technology to the marketplace; and section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-113), as implemented by OMB Circular A-119: Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities. (4) Serve as Chair and Executive Secretary of the Department of Transportation's Research, Development and Technology Planning Council and Planning Team. (5) Advocate Department of Transportation policy and program coordination efforts associated with transportation research. (6) Represent the Department of Transportation on departmental, national and international committees and meetings dealing with transportation research and development (R & D). (7) Manage the strategic planning process for transportation R & D across the Department of Transportation and, through the National Science and Technology Council, across the Federal Government. (8) Carry out the transportation research and development strategic planning function vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 508. (9) Conduct transportation system-level assessments and policy research. (10) Facilitate the creation of transportation public/private partnerships. (11) Foster innovation in the transportation sector. (12) Disseminate information on departmental, national, and international transportation R & D activities. (13) Provide legal support for Departmental intellectual property and patent issues. (14) Manage department- and government-wide (inter/multimodal) transportation R & D programs. (15) Oversee such advisory boards that deal with transportation system-level R & D assessments and issues, such as the Transportation Research Board Committee on the Federal Transportation R & D Strategic Planning Process. (c) Advanced vehicle technology. Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5111 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (49 U.S.C. 5506), as extended by the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2004, Part V, Public Law 108-310, September 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 1144, and section 5513(j) of SAFETEA-LU. (d) Remote sensing technology. Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5113 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (23 U.S.C. 502 Note), as extended by the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2004, Part V, Public Law 108-310, September 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 1144, and section 5506 of SAFETEA-LU. (e) University transportation research. Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5110 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (49 U.S.C. 5505), as extended by the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2004, Part V, Public Law 108-310, September 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 1144, and sections 5401 and 5402 of SAFETEA-LU. (f) Volpe National Transportation Systems Center. Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary with respect to the activities of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center as described in 49 U.S.C. 112(d)(1)(E) and carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 328 with respect to the working capital fund for financing the activities of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center. (g) Exercise authority over the Transportation Safety Institute. (h) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 111 relating to transportation statistics, analysis, and reporting. (i) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5503(d) (Office of Intermodalism). (j) Aviation information. (1) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 329(b)(1) relating to the collection and dissemination of information on civil aeronautics. (2) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 4(a)(7) of the Civil Aeronautics Board Sunset Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-443) relating to the reporting of the extension of unsecured credit to political candidates (section 401, Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971; 2 U.S.C. 451), in conjunction with the General Counsel and the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. (3) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by: 49 U.S.C. 40113 (relating to taking such actions and issuing such regulations as may be necessary to carry out its air commerce and safety responsibilities), 49 U.S.C. 41702 (relating to the duty of carriers to provide safe and adequate service), 49 U.S.C. 41708 and 41709 (relating to the requirement to keep information and the forms in which it is to be kept), and 49 U.S.C. 41701 (relating to establishing just and reasonable classifications of carriers and rules to be followed by each) as appropriate to carry out the responsibilities under this paragraph in conjunction with the General Counsel and the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. (k) Hazardous materials information. In coordination with the Under Secretary, work with the Operating Administrations to determine data needs, collection strategies, and analytical techniques appropriate for implementing 49 U.S.C. 5101 et seq. (l) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 1801(e) of SAFETEA-LU (establishing and maintaining a national ferry database). (m) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5513(c), (d), (g), (h), (i), (l), and (m) of SAFETEA-LU (establishing various research grants). (n) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5201(m) of SAFETEA-LU (biobased transportation research program). (o) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 509 (establishing and supporting a national cooperative freight transportation research program). (p) Positioning, navigation and timing (PNT) and spectrum management. Carry out the functions described in the Secretarial memo of August 1, 2007, &#x201C;Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) and Spectrum Management Realignment under the Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA).&#x201D; (q) Carry out the Secretary's authority to establish, operate and manage the Nationwide Differential Global Positioning System (NDGPS) as described in Section 346 of Public Law 105-66 (Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1998). &#xA7; 1.100 The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. Is responsible for the development, operation, and maintenance of that part of the Saint Lawrence Seaway within the territorial limits of the United States. &#xA7; 1.101 Delegations to the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation Administrator. The Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is delegated authority to: (a) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12 and 13 of section 2 of the Port and Tanker Safety Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-474, 92 Stat. 1471) [33 U.S.C. 1223-1225, 1227, and 1231-1232] as they relate to the operation of the Saint Lawrence Seaway. (b) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5 and section 8(a) of the International Bridge Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-434, 86 Stat. 731) [33 U.S.C. 535c and 535e(a)] as it relates to the Saint Lawrence River. (c) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 3(d) of the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships [33 U.S.C. 1902e] as it relates to ships owned or operated by the Corporation when engaged in noncommercial service. Appendix A to Part 1-Delegations and Redelegations by Secretarial Officers 1. Director of Budget. The Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs and CFO has redelegated to the Director of Budget authority to- (a) Request apportionment and reapportionment of funds by the Office of Management and Budget, provided that no request for apportionment or reapportionment which anticipates the need for a supplemental appropriation shall be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget without appropriate certification by the Secretary. (b) Issue allotments or allocations of funds to components of the Department. 2. Chief Counsels. The General Counsel has delegated to the Chief Counsels the authority delegated to the General Counsel by Amendment 1-41 to part 1 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, 35 FR 17658, November 17, 1970, as follows: Section 855 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by Public Law 91-393, 84 Stat. 835 (40 U.S.C. 255) authorizes the Attorney General to delegate to other departments and agencies his authority to give written approval of the sufficiency to the title to land being acquired by the United States. The Attorney General has delegated to the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Land and Natural Resources Division the authority to make delegations under that law to other Federal departments and agencies (28 CFR 0.66). The Assistant Attorney General, Land and Natural Resources Division, has further delegated certain responsibilities in connection with the approval of the sufficiency of the title to land to the Department of Transportation as follows: Delegation to the Department of Transportation for the Approval of the Title to Lands Being Acquired for Federal Public Purposes Pursuant to the provision of Public Law 91-393, approved September 1, 1970, 84 Stat. 835, amending R.S. 355 (40 U.S.C. 255), and acting under the provisions of Order No. 440-70 of the Attorney General, dated October 2, 1970, the responsibility for the approval of the sufficiency of the title to land for the purpose for which the property is being acquired by purchase or condemnation by the United States for the use of your Department is, subject to the general supervision of the Attorney General and to the following conditions, hereby delegated to your Department. This delegation of authority is further subject to: 1. Compliance with the regulations issued by the Assistant Attorney General on October 2, 1970, a copy of which is enclosed. 2. This delegation is limited to: (a) The acquisition of land for which the title evidence, prepared in compliance with these regulations, consists of a certificate of title, title insurance policy, or an owner's duplicate Torrens certificate of title. (b) The acquisition of lands valued at $100,000 or less, for which the title evidence consists of abstracts of title or other types of title evidence prepared in compliance with said regulations. As stated in the above-mentioned Act, any Federal department or agency which has been delegated the responsibility to approve land titles under the Act may request the Attorney General to render his opinion as to the validity of the title to any real property or interest therein, or may request the advice or assistance of the Attorney General in connection with determinations as to the sufficiency of titles. The Chief Counsels of the Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Highway Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Federal Transit Administration, the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Maritime Administration, and Research and Innovative Technology Administration are hereby authorized to approve the sufficiency of the title to land being acquired by purchase or condemnation by the United States for the use of their respective organizations. This delegation is subject to the limitations imposed by the Assistant Attorney General, Land and Natural Resources Division, in his delegation to the Department of Transportation. Redelegation of this authority may only be made by the Chief Counsels to attorneys within their respective organizations. If the organization does not have an attorney experienced and capable in the examination of title evidence, a Chief Counsel may, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, request the Attorney General to (1) furnish an opinion as to the validity of a title to real property or interest therein, or (2) provide advice or assistance in connection with determining the sufficiency of the title.