PART 573-DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITY AND REPORTS Authority: 49 U.S.C. 30102, 30103, 30116-30121, 30166, Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.95 and 49 CFR 501.8. Source: 43 FR 60169, Dec. 26, 1978, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 573.1 Scope. This part: (a) Sets forth the responsibilities under 49 U.S.C. 30116-30121 of manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment with respect to safety-related defects and noncompliances with Federal motor vehicle safety standards in motor vehicles and items of motor vehicle equipment; and (b) Specifies requirements for- (1) Manufacturers to maintain lists of owners, purchasers, dealers, and distributors notified of defective and noncomplying motor vehicles and motor vehicle original and replacement equipment, (2) Reporting to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) defects in motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment and noncompliances with motor vehicle safety standards prescribed under part 571 of this chapter, and (3) Providing quarterly reports on defect and noncompliance notification campaigns. [69 FR 34959, June 23, 2004] &#xA7; 573.2 Purposes. The purposes of this part are: (a) To facilitate the notification of owners of defective and noncomplying motor vehicles and items of motor vehicle equipment, and the remedy of such defects and noncompliances, by equitably apportioning the responsibility for safety-related defects and noncompliances with Federal motor vehicle safety standards among manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment; and (b) To inform NHTSA of defective and noncomplying motor vehicles and items of motor vehicle equipment, and to obtain information for NHTSA on the adequacy of manufacturers' defect and noncompliance notification campaigns, on corrective action, on owner response, and to compare the defect incidence rate among different groups of vehicles. [67 FR 45872, July 10, 2002] &#xA7; 573.3 Application. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, this part applies to manufacturers of complete motor vehicles, incomplete motor vehicles, and motor vehicle original and replacement equipment, with respect to all vehicles and equipment that have been transported beyond the direct control of the manufacturer. (b) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in a motor vehicle or equipment item imported into the United States, compliance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 573.6 and 573.7 by either the fabricating manufacturer or the importer of the vehicle or equipment item shall be considered compliance by both. (c) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in a vehicle manufactured in two or more stages, compliance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 573.6 and 573.7 by either the manufacturer of the incomplete vehicle or any subsequent manufacturer of the vehicle shall be considered compliance by all manufacturers. (d) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in an item of replacement equipment (except tires) compliance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 573.6 and 573.7 by the brand name or trademark owner shall be considered compliance by the manufacturer. Tire brand name owners are considered manufacturers (49 U.S.C. 10102(b)(1)(E)) and have the same reporting requirements as manufacturers. (e) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in an item of original equipment used in the vehicles of only one vehicle manufacturer, compliance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 573.6 and 573.7 by either the vehicle or equipment manufacturer shall be considered compliance by both. (f) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in original equipment installed in the vehicles of more than one manufacturer, compliance with &#xA7; 573.6 is required of the equipment manufacturer as to the equipment item, and of each vehicle manufacturer as to the vehicles in which the equipment has been installed. Compliance with &#xA7; 573.7 is required of the manufacturer who is conducting the recall campaign. (g) The provisions of &#xA7; 573.10 apply to all persons. (h) The provisions of &#xA7; 573.11 apply to dealers, including retailers of motor vehicle equipment. (i) The provisions of &#xA7; 573.12 apply to all persons. [43 FR 60169, Dec. 26, 1978, as amended at 60 FR 17268, Apr. 5, 1995; 66 FR 38162, July 23, 2001; 67 FR 19697, Apr. 23, 2002; 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003] &#xA7; 573.4 Definitions. For purposes of this part: Act means 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301. Administrator means the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration or his delegate. First purchaser means first purchaser for purposes other than resale. Leased motor vehicle means any motor vehicle that is leased to a person for a term of at least four months by a lessor who has leased five or more vehicles in the twelve months preceding the date of notification by the vehicle manufacturer of the existence of a safety-related defect or noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard in the motor vehicle. Lessee means a person who is the lessee of a leased motor vehicle as defined in this section. Lessor means a person or entity that is the owner, as reflected on the vehicle's title, of any five or more leased vehicles (as defined in this section), as of the date of notification by the manufacturer of the existence of a safety-related defect or noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard in one or more of the leased motor vehicles. Original equipment means an item of motor vehicle equipment (other than a tire) that was installed in or on a motor vehicle at the time of its delivery to the first purchaser if the item of equipment was installed on or in the motor vehicle at the time of its delivery to a dealer or distributor for distribution, or was installed by the dealer or distributor with the express authorizations of the motor vehicle manufacturer. Readable form means a form readable by the unassisted eye or readable by machine. If readable by machine, the submitting party must obtain written confirmation from the Office of Defects Investigation immediately prior to submission that the machine is readily available to NHTSA. For all similar information responses, once a manufacturer has obtained approval for the original response in that form, it will not have to obtain approval for future submissions in the same form. In addition, all coded information must be accompanied by an explanation of the codes used. Replacement equipment means motor vehicle equipment other than original equipment as defined in this section, and tires. [43 FR 60169, Dec. 26, 1978, as amended at 60 FR 17268, Apr. 5, 1995; 67 FR 45872, July 10, 2002] &#xA7; 573.5 Defect and noncompliance responsibility. (a) Each manufacturer of a motor vehicle shall be responsible for any safety-related defect or any noncompliance determined to exist in the vehicle or in any item of original equipment. (b) Each manufacturer of an item of replacement equipment shall be responsible for any safety-related defect or any noncompliance determined to exist in the equipment. [67 FR 45872, July 10, 2002] &#xA7; 573.6 Defect and noncompliance information report. (a) Each manufacturer shall furnish a report to the NHTSA for each defect in his vehicles or in his items of original or replacement equipment that he or the Administrator determines to be related to motor vehicle safety, and for each noncompliance with a motor vehicle safety standard in such vehicles or items of equipment which either he or the Administrator determines to exist. (b) Each report shall be submitted not more than 5 working days after a defect in a vehicle or item of equipment has been determined to be safety related, or a noncompliance with a motor vehicle safety standard has been determined to exist. At a minimum, information required by paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (5) of this section shall be submitted in the initial report. The remainder of the information required by paragraph (c) of this section that is not available within the five-day period shall be submitted within 5 working days after the manufacturer has confirmed the accuracy of the information. In addition, each manufacturer shall amend information required by paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (8)(i) or (ii) within 5 working days after it has new information that updates or corrects information that was previously reported. Each manufacturer submitting new information relative to a previously submitted report shall refer to the recall campaign number when a number has been assigned by the NHTSA. (c) Each manufacturer shall include in each report the information specified below. (1) The manufacturer's name: The full corporate or individual name of the fabricating manufacturer and any brand name or trademark owner of the vehicle or item of equipment shall be spelled out, except that such abbreviations as &#x201C;Co.&#x201D; or &#x201C;Inc.&#x201D;, and their foreign equivalents, and the first and middle initials of individuals, may be used. In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in an imported vehicle or item of equipment, the agency designated by the fabricating manufacturer pursuant to 49 U.S.C. section 30164(a) shall be also stated. If the fabricating manufacturer is a corporation that is controlled by another corporation that assumes responsibility for compliance with all requirements of this part the name of the controlling corporation may be used. (2) Identification of the vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment potentially containing the defect or noncompliance, including a description of the manufacturer's basis for its determination of the recall population and a description of how the vehicles or items of equipment to be recalled differ from similar vehicles or items of equipment that the manufacturer has not included in the recall. (i) In the case of passenger cars, the identification shall be by the make, line, model year, the inclusive dates (month and year) of manufacture, and any other information necessary to describe the vehicles. (ii) In the case of vehicles other than passenger cars, the identification shall be by body style or type, inclusive dates (month and year) of manufacture and any other information necessary to describe the vehicles, such as GVWR or class for trucks, displacement (cc) for motorcycles, and number of passengers for buses. (iii) In the case of items of motor vehicle equipment, the identification shall be by the generic name of the component (tires, child seating systems, axles, etc.), part number (for tires, a range of tire identification numbers, as required by 49 CFR 574.5 ), size and function if applicable, the inclusive dates (month and year) of manufacture if available, brand (or trade) name, model name, model number, as applicable, and any other information necessary to describe the items. (iv) In the case of motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment in which the component that contains the defect or noncompliance was manufactured by a different manufacturer from the reporting manufacturer, the reporting manufacturer shall identify the component and, if known, the component's country of origin ( i.e. final place of manufacture or assembly), the manufacturer and/or assembler of the component by name, business address, and business telephone number. If the reporting manufacturer does not know the identity of the manufacturer of the component, it shall identify the entity from which it was obtained. If at the time of submission of the initial report, the reporting manufacturer does not know the country of origin of the component, the manufacturer shall ascertain the country of origin and submit a supplemental report with that information once it becomes available. (v) In the case of items of motor vehicle equipment, the manufacturer of the equipment shall identify by name, business address, and business telephone number every manufacturer that purchases the defective or noncomplying component for use or installation in new motor vehicles or new items of motor vehicle equipment. (3) The total number of vehicles or items of equipment potentially containing the defect or noncompliance, and where available the number of vehicles or items of equipment in each group identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section. (4) The percentage of vehicles or items of equipment specified pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section estimated to actually contain the defect or noncompliance. (5) A description of the defect or noncompliance, including both a brief summary and a detailed description, with graphic aids as necessary, of the nature and physical location (if applicable) of the defect or noncompliance. In addition, the manufacturer shall identify and describe the risk to motor vehicle safety reasonably related to the defect or noncompliance consistent with its evaluation of risk required by 49 CFR 577.5(f). (6) In the case of a defect, a chronology of all principal events that were the basis for the determination that the defect related to motor vehicle safety, including a summary of all warranty claims, field or service reports, and other information, with their dates of receipt. (7) In the case of a noncompliance, the test results and other information that the manufacturer considered in determining the existence of the noncompliance. The manufacturer shall identify the date of each test and observation that indicated that a noncompliance might or did exist. (8)(i) A description of the manufacturer's program for remedying the defect or noncompliance. This program shall include a plan for reimbursing an owner or purchaser who incurred costs to obtain a remedy for the problem addressed by the recall within a reasonable time in advance of the manufacturer's notification of owners, purchasers and dealers, in accordance with &#xA7; 573.13 of this part. A manufacturer's plan may incorporate by reference a general reimbursement plan it previously submitted to NHTSA, together with information specific to the individual recall. Information required by &#xA7; 573.13 that is not in a general reimbursement plan shall be submitted in the manufacturer's report to NHTSA under this section. If a manufacturer submits one or more general reimbursement plans, the manufacturer shall update each plan every two years, in accordance with &#xA7; 573.13. The manufacturer's remedy program and reimbursement plans will be available for inspection by the public at NHTSA headquarters. (ii) The estimated date(s) on which it will begin sending notifications to owners, and to dealers and distributors, that there is a safety-related defect or noncompliance and that a remedy without charge will be available to owners, and the estimated date(s) on which it will complete such notifications (if different from the beginning date). If a manufacturer subsequently becomes aware that either the beginning or the completion dates reported to the agency for any of the notifications will be delayed by more than two weeks, it shall promptly advise the agency of the delay and the reasons therefore, and furnish a revised estimate. (iii) If a manufacturer intends to file a petition for an exemption from the recall requirements of the Act on the basis that a defect or noncompliance is inconsequential as it relates to motor vehicle safety, it shall notify NHTSA of that intention in its report to NHTSA of the defect or noncompliance under this section. If such a petition is filed and subsequently denied, the manufacturer shall provide the information required by paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section within five Federal government business days from the date the petition denial is published in the Federal Register. (iv) If a manufacturer advises NHTSA that it intends to file such a petition for exemption from the notification and remedy requirements on the grounds that the defect or noncompliance is inconsequential as it relates to motor vehicle safety, and does not do so within the 30-day period established by 49 CFR 556.4(c), the manufacturer must submit the information required by paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section no later than the end of that 30-day period. (9) In the case of a remedy program involving the replacement of tires, the manufacturer's program for remedying the defect or noncompliance shall: (i) Address how the manufacturer will assure that the entities replacing the tires are aware of the legal requirements related to recalls of tires established by 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301 and regulations thereunder. At a minimum, the manufacturer shall notify its owned stores and/or distributors, as well as all independent outlets that are authorized to replace the tires that are the subject of the recall, annually or for each individual recall that the manufacturer conducts, about the ban on the sale of new defective or noncompliant tires (49 CFR 573.11); the prohibition on the sale of new and used defective and noncompliant tires (49 CFR 573.12); and the duty to notify NHTSA of any sale of a new or used recalled tire for use on a motor vehicle (49 CFR 573.10). For tire outlets that are manufacturer-owned or otherwise subject to the control of the manufacturer, the manufacturer shall also provide directions to comply with these statutory provisions and the regulations thereunder. (ii) Address how the manufacturer will prevent, to the extent reasonably within its control, the recalled tires from being resold for installation on a motor vehicle. At a minimum, the manufacturer shall include the following information, to be furnished to each tire outlet that it owns, or that is authorized to replace tires that are recalled, either annually or for each individual recall the manufacturer conducts: (A) Written directions to manufacturer-owned and other manufacturer-controlled outlets to alter the recalled tires permanently so that they cannot be used on vehicles. These shall include instructions on the means to render recalled tires unsuitable for resale for installation on motor vehicles and instructions to perform the incapacitation of each recalled tire, with the exception of any tires that are returned to the manufacturer pursuant to a testing program, within 24 hours of receipt of the recalled tire at the outlet. If the manufacturer has a testing program for recalled tires, these directions shall also include criteria for selecting recalled tires for testing and instructions for labeling those tires and returning them promptly to the manufacturer for testing. (B) Written guidance to all other outlets which are authorized to replace the recalled tires on how to alter the recalled tires promptly and permanently so that they cannot be used on vehicles. (C) A requirement that manufacturer-owned and other manufacturer-controlled outlets report to the manufacturer, either on a monthly basis or within 30 days of the deviation, the number of recalled tires removed from vehicles by the outlet that have not been rendered unsuitable for resale for installation on a motor vehicle within the specified time frame (other than those returned for testing) and describe any such failure to act in accordance with the manufacturer's plan; (iii) Address how the manufacturer will limit, to the extent reasonably within its control, the disposal of the recalled tires in landfills and, instead, channel them into a category of positive reuse (shredding, crumbling, recycling, and recovery) or another alternative beneficial non-vehicular use. At a minimum, the manufacturer shall include the following information, to be furnished to each tire outlet that it owns or that is authorized to replace tires that are recalled, either annually or for each individual recall that the manufacturer conducts: (A)( 1 ) Written directions that require manufacturer-owned and other manufacturer-controlled outlets either: ( i ) To ship recalled tires to one or more locations designated by the manufacturer as part of the program or allow the manufacturer to collect and dispose of the recalled tires; or ( ii ) To ship recalled tires to a location of their own choosing, provided that they comply with applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding disposal of tires. ( 2 ) Under option (c)(9)(iii)(A)( 1 )( ii ) of this section, the directions must also include further direction and guidance on how to limit the disposal of recalled tires in landfills and, instead, channel them into a category of positive reuse (shredding, crumbling, recycling, and recovery) or another alternative beneficial non-vehicular use. (B)( 1 ) Written guidance that authorizes all other outlets that are authorized to replace the recalled tires either: ( i ) To ship recalled tires to one or more locations designated by the manufacturer or allow the manufacturer to collect and dispose of the recalled tires; or ( ii ) To ship recalled tires to a location of their own choosing, provided that they comply with applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding disposal of tires. ( 2 ) Under option (c)(9)(iii)(B)( 1 )( ii ) of this section, the manufacturer must also include further guidance on how to limit the disposal of recalled tires in landfills and, instead, channel them into a category of positive reuse (shredding, crumbling, recycling, and recovery) or another alternative beneficial non-vehicular use. (C) A requirement that manufacturer-owned and other manufacturer-controlled outlets report to the manufacturer, on a monthly basis or within 30 days of the deviation, the number of recalled tires disposed of in violation of applicable state and local laws and regulations, and describe any such failure to act in accordance with the manufacturer's plan; and (D) A description of the manufacturer's program for disposing of the recalled tires that are returned to the manufacturer or collected by the manufacturer from the retail outlets, including, at a minimum, statements that the returned tires will be disposed of in compliance with applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding disposal of tires, and will be channeled, insofar as possible, into a category of positive reuse (shredding, crumbling, recycling and recovery) or another alternative beneficial non-vehicular use, instead of being disposed of in landfills. (iv) To the extent that the manufacturer wishes to limit the frequency of shipments of recalled tires, it must specify both a minimum time period and a minimum weight for the shipments and provide that shipments may be made at whichever minimum occurs first. (v) Written directions required under this paragraph to be furnished to a manufacturer-owned or controlled outlet shall be sent to the person in charge of each outlet by first-class mail or by electronic means, such as FAX transmissions or e-mail, with further instructions to notify all employees of the outlet who are involved with removal, rendering unsuitable for use, or disposition of recalled tires of the applicable requirements and procedures. (vi) Manufacturers must implement the plans for disposition of recalled tires that they file with NHTSA pursuant to this paragraph. The failure of a manufacturer to implement its plan in accordance with its terms constitutes a violation of the Safety Act. (10) A representative copy of all notices, bulletins, and other communications that relate directly to the defect or noncompliance and are sent to more than one manufacturer, distributor, dealer or purchaser. These copies shall be submitted to NHTSA's Recall Management Division (NVS-215) (RMD), not later than 5 days after they are initially sent to manufacturers, distributors, dealers, or purchasers. Submission shall be made pursuant to &#xA7; 573.9 of this part. (11) The manufacturer's campaign number, if not identical to the identification number assigned by NHTSA. [43 FR 60169, Dec. 26, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 20437, Apr. 5, 1979; 48 FR 44081, Sept. 27, 1983; 60 FR 17268, Apr. 5, 1995; 61 FR 278, Jan. 4, 1996. Redesignated at 67 FR 45872, July 10, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 64063, Oct. 17, 2002; 69 FR 34959, June 23, 2004; 69 FR 50084, Aug. 13, 2004; 70 FR 38814, July 6, 2005; 72 FR 32016, June 11, 2007; 74 FR 47757, Sept. 17, 2009; 78 FR 51421, Aug. 20, 2013; 79 FR 43677, July 28, 2014] &#xA7; 573.7 Quarterly reports. (a) Each manufacturer who is conducting a defect or noncompliance notification campaign to manufacturers, distributors, dealers, or owners shall submit to NHTSA a report in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. Unless otherwise directed by the NHTSA, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section shall be included in the quarterly report, with respect to each notification campaign, for each of six consecutive quarters beginning with the quarter in which the campaign was initiated (i.e., the date the manufacturer notifies its purchasers of the availability of a remedy) or corrective action has been completed on all defective or noncomplying vehicles or items of replacement equipment involved in the campaign, whichever occurs first. (b) Each report shall include the following information identified by and in the order of the subparagraph headings of this paragraph. (1) The notification campaign number assigned by NHTSA. (2) The date notification began and the date completed. (3) The number of vehicles or items of equipment involved in the notification campaign. (4) The number of vehicles and equipment items which have been inspected and repaired and the number of vehicles and equipment items inspected and determined not to need repair. (5) The number of vehicles or items of equipment determined to be unreachable for inspection due to export, theft, scrapping, failure to receive notification, or other reasons (specify). The number of vehicles or items or equipment in each category shall be specified. (6) In reports by equipment manufacturers, the number of items of equipment repaired and/or returned by dealers, other retailers, and distributors to the manufacturer prior to their first sale to the public. (7) For all recalls that involve the replacement of tires, the manufacturer shall provide: (i) The aggregate number of recalled tires that the manufacturer becomes aware have not been rendered unsuitable for resale for installation on a motor vehicle in accordance with the manufacturer's plan provided to NHTSA pursuant to &#xA7; 573.6(c)(9); (ii) The aggregate number of recalled tires that the manufacturer becomes aware have been disposed of in violation of applicable state and local laws and regulations; and (iii) A description of any failure of a tire outlet to act in accordance with the directions in the manufacturer's plan, including an identification of the outlet(s) in question. (c) Information supplied in response to the paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section shall be cumulative totals. (d) The reports required by this section shall be submitted in accordance with the following schedule, except that if the due date specified below falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the report shall be submitted on the next day that is a business day for the Federal government: (1) For the first calendar quarter (January 1 through March 31), on or before April 30; (2) For the second calendar quarter (April 1 through June 30), on or before July 30; (3) For the third calendar quarter (July 1 through September 30), on or before October 30; and (4) For the fourth calendar quarter (October 1 through December 31), on or before January 30. [51 FR 398, Jan. 6, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 17269, Apr. 5, 1995. Redesignated at 67 FR 45872, July 10, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 50085, Aug. 13, 2004; 79 FR 43677, July 28, 2014] &#xA7; 573.8 Lists of purchasers, owners, dealers, distributors, lessors, and lessees. (a) Each manufacturer of motor vehicles shall maintain, in a form suitable for inspection such as computer information storage devices or card files, a list of the names and addresses of registered owners, as determined through State motor vehicle registration records or other sources or the most recent purchasers where the registered owners are unknown, for all vehicles involved in a defect or noncompliance notification campaign initiated after the effective date of this part. The list shall include the vehicle identification number for each vehicle and the status of remedy with respect to each vehicle, updated as of the end of each quarterly reporting period specified in &#xA7; 573.7. Each vehicle manufacturer shall also maintain such a list of the names and addresses of all dealers and distributors to which a defect or noncompliance notification was sent. Each list shall be retained for 5 years, beginning with the date on which the defect or noncompliance information report required by &#xA7; 573.6 is initially submitted to NHTSA. (b) Each manufacturer (including brand name owners) of tires shall maintain, in a form suitable for inspection such as computer information storage devices or card files, a list of the names and addresses of the first purchasers of his tires for all tires involved in a defect or noncompliance notification campaign initiated after the effective date of this part. The list shall include the tire identification number of all tires and shall show the status of remedy with respect to each owner involved in each notification campaign, updated as of the end of each quarterly reporting period specified in &#xA7; 573.6. Each list shall be retained, beginning with the date on which the defect information report is initially submitted to the NHTSA, for 3 years. (c) For each item of equipment involved in a defect or noncompliance notification campaign initiated after the effective date of this part, each manufacturer of motor vehicle equipment other than tires shall maintain, in a form suitable for inspection, such as computer information storage devices or card files, a list of the names and addresses of each distributor and dealer of such manufacturer, each motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment manufacturer and most recent purchaser known to the manufacturer to whom a potentially defective or noncomplying item of equipment has been sold and to whom notification is sent, the number of such items sold to each, and the date of shipment. The list shall show as far as is practicable the number of items remedied or returned to the manufacturer and the dates of such remedy or return. Each list shall be retained, beginning with the date on which the defect report required by &#xA7; 573.5 is initially submitted to the NHTSA, for 5 years. (d) Each lessor of leased motor vehicles that receives a notification from the manufacturer of such vehicles that the vehicle contains a safety-related defect or fails to comply with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard shall maintain, in a form suitable for inspection, such as computer information storage devices or card files, a list of the names and addresses of all lessees to which the lessor has provided notification of a defect or noncompliance pursuant to 49 CFR 577.5(h). The list shall also include the make, model, model year, and vehicle identification number of each such leased vehicle, and the date on which the lessor mailed notification of the defect or noncompliance to the lessee. The information required by this paragraph must be retained by the lessor for one calendar year from the date the vehicle lease expires. [43 FR 60169, Dec. 26, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 20437, Apr. 5, 1979; 60 FR 17269, Apr. 5, 1995; 61 FR 278, Jan. 4, 1996. Redesignated at 67 FR 45872, July 10, 2002; 69 FR 34959, June 23, 2004] &#xA7; 573.9 Address for submitting required reports and other information. All submissions, except as otherwise required by this part, shall be submitted to NHTSA on the Internet Web page http://www.safercar.gov/Vehicle + Manufacturers. A manufacturer must use the templates provided at this Web page for all submissions required under this section. Defect and noncompliance information reports required by &#xA7; 573.6 of this part shall be submitted using one of the following forms, depending upon the type of product that is the subject of the report: &#x201C;Defect and/or Noncompliance Information Report Form-Vehicles;&#x201D; &#x201C;Defect and/or Noncompliance Information Report Form-Equipment;&#x201D; &#x201C;Defect and/or Noncompliance Information Report Form-Tires;&#x201D; &#x201C;Defect and/or Noncompliance Information Report Form-Child Restraints;&#x201D; &#x201C;Defect and/or Noncompliance Information Report-Vehicle Alterers.&#x201D; Reports required under &#xA7; 573.7 of this part shall be submitted using the form, &#x201C;Quarterly Report Form&#x201D; also located at this Web page. [78 FR 51421, Aug. 20, 2013] &#xA7; 573.10 Reporting the sale or lease of defective or noncompliant tires. (a) Reporting requirement. Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, any person who knowingly and willfully sells or leases for use on a motor vehicle a defective tire or a tire that is not compliant with an applicable tire safety standard with actual knowledge that the manufacturer of such tire has notified its dealers of such defect or noncompliance as required under 49 U.S.C. 30118(c) or as required by an order under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b) must report that sale or lease to the Associate Administrator for Enforcement, NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590. (b) Exclusions from reporting requirement. Paragraph (a) of this section is not applicable where, before delivery under a sale or lease of a tire: (1) The defect or noncompliance of the tire is remedied as required under 49 U.S.C. 30120; or (2) Notification of the defect or noncompliance is required by an order under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b), but enforcement of the order is restrained or the order is set aside in a civil action to which 49 U.S.C. 30121(d) applies. (c) Contents of report; requirement of signature. (1) A report submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must contain the following information, where that information is available to the person selling or leasing the defective or noncompliant tire: (i) A statement that the report is being submitted pursuant to 49 CFR 573.10(a) (sale or lease of defective or noncompliant tires); (ii) The name, address and phone number of the person who purchased or leased the tire; (iii) The name of the manufacturer of the tire; (iv) The tire's brand name, model name, and size; (v) The tire's DOT identification number; (vi) The date of the sale or lease; and (vii) The name, address, and telephone number of the seller or lessor. (2) Each report must be dated and signed, with the name of the person signing the report legibly printed or typed below the signature. (d) Reports required to be submitted pursuant to this section must be submitted no more than that five working days after a person to whom a tire covered by this section has been sold or leased has taken possession of that tire. Submissions must be made by any means which permits the sender to verify promptly that the report was in fact received by NHTSA and the day it was received by NHTSA. [65 FR 81413, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 32016, June 11, 2007] &#xA7; 573.11 Prohibition on sale or lease of new defective and noncompliant motor vehicles and items of replacement equipment. (a) If notification is required by an order under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b) or is required under 49 U.S.C. 30118(c) and the manufacturer has provided to a dealer (including retailers of motor vehicle equipment) notification about a new motor vehicle or new item of replacement equipment in the dealer's possession, including actual and constructive possession, at the time of notification that contains a defect related to motor vehicle safety or does not comply with an applicable motor vehicle safety standard issued under 49 CFR part 571, the dealer may sell or lease the motor vehicle or item of replacement equipment only if: (1) The defect or noncompliance is remedied as required by 49 U.S.C. 30120 before delivery under the sale or lease; or (2) When the notification is required by an order under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b), enforcement of the order is restrained or the order is set aside in a civil action to which 49 U.S.C. 30121(d) applies. (b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not prohibit a dealer from offering the vehicle or equipment for sale or lease, provided that the dealer does not sell or lease it. [67 FR 19697, Apr. 23, 2002] &#xA7; 573.12 Prohibition on sale or lease of new and used defective and noncompliant motor vehicle equipment. (a) Subject to &#xA7; 573.12(b), no person may sell or lease any new or used item of motor vehicle equipment (including a tire) as defined by 49 U.S.C. 30102(a)(7), for installation on a motor vehicle, that is the subject of a decision under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b) or a notice required under 49 U.S.C. 30118(c), in a condition that it may be reasonably used for its original purpose. (b) Paragraph (a) of this section is not applicable where: (1) The defect or noncompliance is remedied as required under 49 U.S.C. 30120 before delivery under the sale or lease; (2) Notification of the defect or noncompliance is required by an order under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b), but enforcement of the order is restrained or the order is set aside in a civil action to which 49 U.S.C. 30121(d) applies. [67 FR 19698, Apr. 23, 2002] &#xA7; 573.13 Reimbursement for pre-notification remedies. (a) Pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30120(d) and &#xA7; 573.6(c)(8)(i) of this part, this section specifies requirements for a manufacturer's plan (including general reimbursement plans submitted pursuant to &#xA7; 573.6(c)(8)(i)) to reimburse owners and purchasers for costs incurred for remedies in advance of the manufacturer's notification of safety-related defects and noncompliance with Federal motor vehicle safety standards under subsection (b) or (c) of 49 U.S.C. 30118. (b) Definitions. The following definitions apply to this section: (1) Booster seat means either a backless child restraint system or a belt-positioning seat. (2) Claimant means a person who seeks reimbursement for the costs of a pre-notification remedy for which he or she paid. (3) Pre-notification remedy means a remedy that is performed on a motor vehicle or item of replacement equipment for a problem subsequently addressed by a notification under subsection (b) or (c) of 49 U.S.C. 30118 and that is obtained during the period for reimbursement specified in paragraph (c) of this section. (4) Other child restraint system means all child restraint systems as defined in 49 CFR 571.213 S4 not included within the categories of rear-facing infant seat or booster seat. (5) Rear-facing infant seat means a child restraint system that is designed to position a child to face only in the direction opposite to the normal direction of travel of the motor vehicle. (6) Warranty means a warranty as defined in &#xA7; 579.4(c) of this chapter. (c) The manufacturer's plan shall specify a period for reimbursement, as follows: (1) The beginning date shall be no later than a date based on the underlying basis for the recall determined as follows: (i) For a noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard, the date shall be the date of the first test or observation by either NHTSA or the manufacturer indicating that a noncompliance may exist. (ii) For a safety-related defect that is determined to exist following the opening of an Engineering Analysis (EA) by NHTSA's Office of Defects Investigation (ODI), the date shall be the date the EA was opened, or one year before the date of the manufacturer's notification to NHTSA pursuant to &#xA7; 573.6 of this part, whichever is earlier. (iii) For a safety-related defect that is determined to exist in the absence of the opening of an EA, the date shall be one year before the date of the manufacturer's notification to NHTSA pursuant to &#xA7; 573.6 of this part. (2) The ending date shall be no earlier than: (i) For motor vehicles, 10 calendar days after the date on which the manufacturer mailed the last of its notifications to owners pursuant to part 577 of this chapter. (ii) For replacement equipment, 10 calendar days after the date on which the manufacturer mailed the last of its notifications to owners pursuant to part 577 of this chapter (where applicable) or 30 days after the conclusion of the manufacturer's initial efforts to provide public notice of the existence of the defect or noncompliance pursuant to &#xA7; 577.7, whichever is later. (d) The manufacturer's plan shall provide for reimbursement of costs for pre-notification remedies, subject to the conditions established in the plan. The following conditions and no others may be established in the plan. (1) The plan may exclude reimbursement for costs incurred within the period during which the manufacturer's original or extended warranty would have provided for a free repair of the problem addressed by the recall, without any payment by the consumer unless a franchised dealer or authorized representative of the manufacturer denied warranty coverage or the repair made under warranty did not remedy the problem addressed by the recall. The exclusion based on an extended warranty may be applied only when the manufacturer provided written notice of the terms of the extended warranty to owners. (2)(i) For a motor vehicle, the plan may exclude reimbursement: (A) If the pre-notification remedy was not of the same type (repair, replacement, or refund of purchase price) as the recall remedy; (B) If the pre-notification remedy did not address the defect or noncompliance that led to the recall or a manifestation of the defect or noncompliance; or (C) If the pre-notification remedy was not reasonably necessary to correct the defect or noncompliance that led to the recall or a manifestation of the defect or noncompliance. (ii) However, the plan may not require that the pre-notification remedy be identical to the remedy elected by the manufacturer pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30120(a)(1)(A). (3)(i) For replacement equipment, the plan may exclude reimbursement: (A) If the pre-notification remedy did not address the defect or noncompliance that led to the recall or a manifestation of the defect or noncompliance; (B) If the pre-notification remedy was not reasonably necessary to correct the defect or noncompliance that led to the recall or a manifestation of the defect and noncompliance; or (C) In the case of a child restraint system that was replaced, if the replacement child restraint is not the same type ( i.e., rear-facing infant seat, booster seat, or other child restraint system) as the restraint that was the subject of the recall. (ii) However, the plan may not require that the pre-notification remedy be identical to the remedy elected by the manufacturer pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30120(a)(1)(B). (4) The plan may exclude reimbursement if the claimant did not submit adequate documentation to the manufacturer at an address or location designated pursuant to &#xA7; 573.13(f). The plan may require, at most, that the following documentation be submitted: (i) Name and mailing address of the claimant; (ii) Identification of the product that was recalled: (A) For motor vehicles, the vehicle make, model, model year, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle; (B) For replacement equipment other than child restraint systems and tires, a description of the equipment, including model and size as appropriate; (C) For child restraint systems, a description of the restraint, including the type (rear-facing infant seat, booster seat, or other child restraint system) and the model; or (D) For tires, the model and size; (iii) Identification of the recall (either the NHTSA recall number or the manufacturer's recall number); (iv) Identification of the owner or purchaser of the recalled motor vehicle or replacement equipment at the time that the pre-notification remedy was obtained; (v) A receipt for the pre-notification remedy, which may be an original or copy: (A) If the reimbursement sought is for a repair, the manufacturer may require that the receipt indicate that the repair addressed the defect or noncompliance that led to the recall or a manifestation of the defect or noncompliance, and state the total amount paid for the repair of that problem. Itemization of a receipt of the amount for parts, labor, other costs and taxes, may not be required unless it is unclear on the face of the receipt that the repair for which reimbursement is sought addressed only the pre-notification remedy relating to the pertinent defect or noncompliance or manifestation thereof. (B) If the reimbursement sought is for the replacement of a vehicle part or an item of replacement equipment, the manufacturer may require that the receipt identify the item and state the total amount paid for the item that replaced the defective or noncompliant item; (vi) In the case of items of replacement equipment that were replaced, documentation that the claimant or a relative thereof (with relationship stated) owned the recalled item. Such documentation could consist of: (A) An invoice or receipt showing purchase of the recalled item of replacement equipment; (B) If the claimant sent a registration card for a recalled child restraint system or tire to the manufacturer, a statement to that effect; (C) A copy of the registration card for the recalled child restraint system or tire; or (D) Documentation demonstrating that the claimant had replaced a recalled tire that was on a vehicle that he, she, or a relative owned; and (vii) If the pre-notification remedy was obtained at a time when the vehicle or equipment could have been repaired or replaced at no charge under a manufacturer's original or extended warranty program, documentation indicating that the manufacturer's dealer or authorized facility either refused to remedy the problem addressed by the recall under the warranty or that the warranty repair did not correct the problem addressed by the recall. (e) The manufacturer's plan shall specify the amount of costs to be reimbursed for a pre-notification remedy. (1) For motor vehicles: (i) The amount of reimbursement shall not be less than the lesser of: (A) The amount paid by the owner for the remedy, or (B) The cost of parts for the remedy, plus associated labor at local labor rates, miscellaneous fees such as disposal of waste, and taxes. Costs for parts may be limited to the manufacturer's list retail price for authorized parts. (ii) Any associated costs, including, but not limited to, taxes or disposal of wastes, may not be limited. (2) For replacement equipment: (i) The amount of reimbursement ordinarily would be the amount paid by the owner for the replacement item. (ii) In cases in which the owner purchased a brand or model different from the item of motor vehicle equipment that was the subject of the recall, the manufacturer may limit the amount of reimbursement to the retail list price of the defective or noncompliant item that was replaced, plus taxes. (iii) If the item of motor vehicle equipment was repaired, the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section apply. (f) The manufacturer's plan shall identify an address to which claimants may mail reimbursement clams and may identify franchised dealer(s) and authorized facilities to which claims for reimbursement may be submitted directly. (g) The manufacturer (either directly or through its designated dealer or facility) shall act upon requests for reimbursement as follows: (1) The manufacturer shall act upon a claim for reimbursement within 60 days of its receipt. If the manufacturer denies the claim, the manufacturer must send a notice to the claimant within 60 days of receipt of the claim that includes a clear, concise statement of the reasons for the denial. (2) If a claim for reimbursement is incomplete when originally submitted, the manufacturer shall advise the claimant within 60 days of receipt of the claim of the documentation that is needed and offer an opportunity to resubmit the claim with complete documentation. (h) Reimbursement shall be in the form of a check or cash from the manufacturer or a designated dealer or facility. (i) The manufacturer shall make its reimbursement plan available to the public upon request. (j) Any disputes over the denial in whole or in part of a claim for reimbursement shall be resolved between the claimant and the manufacturer. NHTSA will not mediate or resolve any disputes regarding eligibility for, or the amount of, reimbursement. (k) Each manufacturer shall implement each plan for reimbursement in accordance with this section and the terms of the plan. (l) Nothing in this section requires that a manufacturer provide reimbursement in connection with a fraudulent claim for reimbursement. (m) A manufacturer's plan may provide that it will not apply to recalls based solely on noncompliant or defective labels. (n) The requirement that reimbursement for a pre-notification remedy be provided to an owner does not apply if, in the case of a motor vehicle or replacement equipment other than a tire, it was bought by the first purchaser more than 10 calendar years before notice is given under 49 U.S.C. 30118(c) or an order is issued under section 49 U.S.C. 30118(b). In the case of a tire, this period shall be 5 calendar years. [67 FR 64063, Oct. 17, 2002] &#xA7; 573.14 Accelerated remedy program. (a) An accelerated remedy program is one in which the manufacturer expands the sources of replacement parts needed to remedy the defect or noncompliance, or expands the number of authorized repair facilities beyond those facilities that usually and customarily provide remedy work for the manufacturer, or both. (b) The Administrator may require a manufacturer to accelerate its remedy program if: (1) The Administrator finds that there is a risk of serious injury or death if the remedy program is not accelerated; (2) The Administrator finds that acceleration of the remedy program can be reasonably achieved by expanding the sources of replacement parts, expanding the number of authorized repair facilities, or both; and (3) The Administrator determines that the manufacturer's remedy program is not likely to be capable of completion within a reasonable time. (c) The Administrator, in deciding whether to require the manufacturer to accelerate a remedy program and what to require the manufacturer to do, will consult with the manufacturer and may consider a wide range of information, including, but not limited to, the following: the manufacturer's initial or revised report submitted under &#xA7; 573.6(c), information from the manufacturer, information from other manufacturers and suppliers, information from any source related to the availability and implementation of the remedy, and the seriousness of the risk of injury or death associated with the defect or noncompliance. (d) As required by the Administrator, an accelerated remedy program shall include the manner of acceleration (expansion of the sources of replacement parts, expansion of the number of authorized repair facilities, or both), may require submission of a plan, may identify the parts to be provided and/or the sources of those parts, may require the manufacturer to notify the agency and owners about any differences among different sources or brands of parts, may require the manufacturer to identify additional authorized repair facilities, and may specify additional owner notifications related to the program. The Administrator may also require the manufacturer to include a program to provide reimbursement to owners who incur costs to obtain the accelerated remedy. (e) Under an accelerated remedy program, the remedy that is provided shall be equivalent to the remedy that would have been provided if the manufacturer's remedy program had not been accelerated. The replacement parts used to remedy the defect or noncompliance shall be reasonably equivalent to those that would have been used if the remedy program were not accelerated. The service procedures shall be reasonably equivalent. In the case of tires, all replacement tires shall be the same size and type as the defective or noncompliant tire, shall be suitable for use on the owner's vehicle, shall have the same or higher load index and speed rating, and, for passenger car tires, shall have the same or better rating in each of the three categories enumerated in the Uniform Tire Quality Grading System. See 49 CFR 575.104. In the case of child restraints systems, all replacements shall be of the same type (e.g., rear-facing infant seats with a base, rear-facing infant seats without a base, convertible seats (designed for use in both rear- and forward-facing modes), forward-facing only seats, high back booster seats with a five-point harness, and belt positioning booster seats) and the same overall quality. (f) In those instances where the accelerated remedy program provides that an owner may obtain the remedy from a source other than the manufacturer or its dealers or authorized facilities by paying for the remedy and/or its installation, the manufacturer shall reimburse the owner for the cost of obtaining the remedy as specified on paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section. Under these circumstances, the accelerated remedy program shall include, to the extent required by the Administrator: (1) A description of the remedy and costs that are eligible for reimbursement, including identification of the equipment and/or parts and labor for which reimbursement is available; (2) Identification, with specificity or as a class, of the alternative repair facilities at which reimbursable repairs may be performed, including an explanation of how to arrange for service at those facilities; and (3) Other provisions assuring appropriate reimbursement that are consistent with those set forth in &#xA7; 573.13, including, but not limited to, provisions regarding the procedures and needed documentation for making a claim for reimbursement, the amount of costs to be reimbursed, the office to which claims for reimbursement shall be submitted, the requirements on manufacturers for acting on claims for reimbursement, and the methods by which owners can obtain information about the program. (g) In response to a manufacturer's request, the Administrator may authorize a manufacturer to terminate its accelerated remedy program if the Administrator concludes that the manufacturer can meet all future demands for the remedy through its own sources in a prompt manner. If required by the Administrator, the manufacturer shall provide notice of the termination of the program to all owners of unremedied vehicles and equipment at least 30 days in advance of the termination date, in a form approved by the Administrator. (h) Each manufacturer shall implement any accelerated remedy program required by the Administrator according to the terms of that program. [67 FR 72392, Dec. 5, 2002] &#xA7; 573.15 Public availability of motor vehicle recall information. (a) General -Manufacturers that have manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported into the United States 25,000 or more light vehicles or 5,000 or more motorcycles in the current calendar year or the prior calendar year shall make motor vehicle safety recall information applicable to the vehicles they manufactured available to the public on the Internet. The information shall be in a format that is searchable by vehicle make and model and vehicle identification number (VIN), that preserves consumer privacy, and that includes information about each recall that has not been completed for each vehicle. (b) Specific requirements -The system that manufacturers use to provide the information as specified in paragraph (a) of this section must also meet the following requirements: (1) Be free of charge and not require users to register or submit information, other than a make, model, and a VIN, in order to obtain information on recalls; (2) Have a hyperlink (Internet link) to it conspicuously placed on the manufacturer's main United States' Web page; (3) Not include sales or marketing messages with the page for entering a make, model, and VIN, or with the page where the results are displayed; (4) Allow users to search a vehicle's recall remedy status, and report that a recall has not been completed on that vehicle, as soon as possible and no later than the date when the manufacturer includes that vehicle on its list compiled for purposes of 49 CFR 573.8(a); (5) Ensure safety recalls subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section are conspicuously placed first, before any other information that is displayed; (6) For vehicles that have been identified as covered by a safety recall, but for which the recall remedy is not yet available, state that the vehicle is covered by the safety recall and that the remedy is not yet available; (7) Be updated at least once every seven (7) calendar days. The date of the last update must display on both the page for entering the make, model, and VIN to search for recall completion information and the results page; (8) Where the search results in identification of a recall that has not been completed, state the recall campaign number NHTSA assigned to the matter; state the date the defect or noncompliance was reported pursuant to Part 573; provide a brief description of the safety defect or noncompliance, including the risk to safety, identified in the manufacturer's information report or owner notification letter filed pursuant to this part; and describe the remedy program; (9) At a minimum, include recall completion information for each vehicle covered by any safety recall for which the owner notification campaign started at any time within the previous fifteen (15) calendar years; (10) State the earliest date for which recall completion information is available, either on the search page or on the results page, and provide information for all owner notification campaigns after that date; (11) Instruct the user to contact the manufacturer if the user has questions or wishes to question the accuracy of any information, and provide a hyperlink or other contact information for doing so; (12) Ensure, through adherence with technical specifications that NHTSA makes available through a secure area of its Web site http://www.safercar.gov/Vehicle + Manufacturers/RecallsPortal, the secure electronic transfer of the recall information and data required to be made publicly available by this section, to NHTSA for its use in displaying that information and data on its Web sites or other public portals. [78 FR 51421, Aug. 20, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 43677, July 28, 2014] &#xA7; 573.16 Reporting bankruptcy petition. Each manufacturer that files a bankruptcy petition, or is the subject of an involuntary petition for which relief has been ordered, pursuant to Title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C. 101 et seq., shall provide NHTSA a report as specified below. (a) The name of the court, the docket number, and the name, address and telephone number of the manufacturer's legal representative; (b) A copy of the bankruptcy petition; (c) A list of the recalls for which the manufacturer filed a &#x201C;Defect and noncompliance information report&#x201D; with NHTSA pursuant to 49 CFR 573.6; and (d) The information specified in 49 CFR 573.7(b) for each recall listed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. (e) Each report pursuant to this section must be received by NHTSA not more than 5 working days after the date the petition is filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court. Reports shall be addressed to the Associate Administrator for Enforcement, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Attention: Recall Management Division (NVS-215), 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590, or submitted as an attachment to an email message to RMD.ODI@dot.gov in a portable document format (.pdf). [78 FR 51422, Aug. 20, 2013]