PART 655-PREVENTION OF ALCOHOL MISUSE AND PROHIBITED DRUG USE IN TRANSIT OPERATIONS Authority: 49 U.S.C. 5331 (as amended); 49 CFR 1.91 Source: 66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 655.1 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to establish programs to be implemented by employers that receive financial assistance from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and by contractors of those employers, that are designed to help prevent accidents, injuries, and fatalities resulting from the misuse of alcohol and use of prohibited drugs by employees who perform safety-sensitive functions. &#xA7; 655.2 Overview. (a) This part includes nine subparts. Subpart A of this part covers the general requirements of FTA's drug and alcohol testing programs. Subpart B of this part specifies the basic requirements of each employer's alcohol misuse and prohibited drug use program, including the elements required to be in each employer's testing program. Subpart C of this part describes prohibited drug use. Subpart D of this part describes prohibited alcohol use. Subpart E of this part describes the types of alcohol and drug tests to be conducted. Subpart F of this part addresses the testing procedural requirements mandated by the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, and as required in 49 CFR Part 40. Subpart G of this part lists the consequences for covered employees who engage in alcohol misuse or prohibited drug use. Subpart H of this part contains administrative matters, such as reports and recordkeeping requirements. Subpart I of this part specifies how a recipient certifies compliance with the rule. (b) This part must be read in conjunction with 49 CFR Part 40, Procedures for Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs. &#xA7; 655.3 Applicability. (a) Except as specifically excluded in paragraphs (b), and (c) of this section, this part applies to: (1) Each recipient and subrecipient receiving Federal assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, or 5311; and (2) Any contractor of a recipient or subrecipient of Federal assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, 5311. (b) A recipient operating a railroad regulated by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) shall follow 49 CFR Part 219 and &#xA7; 655.83 for its railroad operations, and shall follow this part for its non-railroad operations, if any. (c) A recipient operating a ferryboat regulated by the United States Coast Guard (USCG) that satisfactorily complies with the testing requirements of 46 CFR Parts 4 and 16, and 33 CFR Part 95 shall be in concurrent compliance with the testing requirements of this part. This exception shall not apply to the provisions of section 655.45, or subparts G, or H of this part. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 69198, Nov. 30, 2006; 78 FR 37993, June 25, 2013] &#xA7; 655.4 Definitions. For this part, the terms listed in this section have the following definitions. The definitions of additional terms used in this part but not listed in this section can be found in 49 CFR Part 40. Accident means an occurrence associated with the operation of a vehicle, if as a result: (1) An individual dies; or (2) An individual suffers bodily injury and immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or (3) With respect to an occurrence in which the mass transit vehicle involved is a bus, electric bus, van, or automobile, one or more vehicles (including non-FTA funded vehicles) incurs disabling damage as the result of the occurrence and such vehicle or vehicles are transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle; or (4) With respect to an occurrence in which the public transportation vehicle involved is a rail car, trolley car, trolley bus, or vessel, the public transportation vehicle is removed from operation. Administrator means the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration or the Administrator's designee. Anti-drug program means a program to detect and deter the use of prohibited drugs as required by this part. Certification means a recipient's written statement, authorized by the organization's governing board or other authorizing official that the recipient has complied with the provisions of this part. (See &#xA7; 655.82 and &#xA7; 655.83 for certification requirements.) Contractor means a person or organization that provides a safety-sensitive service for a recipient, subrecipient, employer, or operator consistent with a specific understanding or arrangement. The understanding can be a written contract or an informal arrangement that reflects an ongoing relationship between the parties. Covered employee means a person, including an applicant or transferee, who performs or will perform a safety-sensitive function for an entity subject to this part. A volunteer is a covered employee if: (1) The volunteer is required to hold a commercial driver's license to operate the vehicle; or (2) The volunteer performs a safety-sensitive function for an entity subject to this part and receives remuneration in excess of his or her actual expenses incurred while engaged in the volunteer activity. Disabling damage means damage that precludes departure of a motor vehicle from the scene of the accident in its usual manner in daylight after simple repairs. (1) Inclusion. Damage to a motor vehicle, where the vehicle could have been driven, but would have been further damaged if so driven. (2) Exclusions. (i) Damage that can be remedied temporarily at the scene of the accident without special tools or parts. (ii) Tire disablement without other damage even if no spare tire is available. (iii) Headlamp or tail light damage. (iv) Damage to turn signals, horn, or windshield wipers, which makes the vehicle inoperable. DOT or The Department means the United States Department of Transportation. DOT agency means an agency (or &#x201C;operating administration&#x201D;) of the United States Department of Transportation administering regulations requiring drug and alcohol testing. See 14 CFR part 121, appendices I and J; 33 CFR part 95; 46 CFR parts 4, 5, and 16; and 49 CFR parts 199, 219, 382, and 655. Employer means a recipient or other entity that provides public transportation service or which performs a safety-sensitive function for such recipient or other entity. This term includes subrecipients, operators, and contractors. FTA means the Federal Transit Administration, an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation. Performing (a safety-sensitive function) means a covered employee is considered to be performing a safety-sensitive function and includes any period in which he or she is actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately available to perform such functions. Positive rate for random drug testing means the number of verified positive results for random drug tests conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random drug tests required by this part, divided by the total number of random drug tests results ( i.e., positive, negative, and refusals) under this part. Railroad means: (1) All forms of non-highway ground transportation that run on rails or electromagnetic guideways, including: (i) Commuter or other short-haul rail passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area, as well as any commuter rail service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation as of January 1, 1979; and (ii) High speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether they use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads. (2) Such term does not include rapid transit operations within an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation. Recipient means a person that receives Federal financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, or 5311 directly from the Federal Government. Refuse to submit means any circumstance outlined in 49 CFR 40.191 and 40.261. Safety-sensitive function means any of the following duties, when performed by employees of recipients, subrecipients, operators, or contractors: (1) Operating a revenue service vehicle, including when not in revenue service; (2) Operating a nonrevenue service vehicle, when required to be operated by a holder of a Commercial Driver's License; (3) Controlling dispatch or movement of a revenue service vehicle; (4) Maintaining (including repairs, overhaul and rebuilding) a revenue service vehicle or equipment used in revenue service. This section does not apply to the following: an employer who receives funding under 49 U.S.C. 5307 or 5309, is in an area less than 200,000 in population, and contracts out such services; or an employer who receives funding under 49 U.S.C. 5311 and contracts out such services; (5) Carrying a firearm for security purposes. Vehicle means a bus, electric bus, van, automobile, rail car, trolley car, trolley bus, or vessel. A public transportation vehicle is a vehicle used for public transportation or for ancillary services. Violation rate for random alcohol testing means the number of 0.04 and above random alcohol confirmation test results conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random alcohol tests required by this part, divided by the total number of alcohol random screening tests (including refusals) conducted under this part. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 75462, Dec. 31, 2003; 78 FR 37993, June 25, 2013] &#xA7; 655.5 Stand-down waivers for drug testing. (a) An employer subject to this part may petition the FTA for a waiver allowing the employer to stand down, per 49 CFR Part 40, an employee following a report of a laboratory confirmed positive drug test or refusal, pending the outcome of the verification process. (b) Each petition for a waiver must be in writing and include facts and justification to support the waiver. Each petition must satisfy the requirements for obtaining a waiver, as provided in 49 CFR 40.21. (c) Each petition for a waiver must be submitted to the Office of Safety and Security, Federal Transit Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE, Washington, DC 20590. (d) The Administrator may grant a waiver subject to 49 CFR 40.21(d). [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7; 655.6 Preemption of state and local laws. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this part preempts any state or local law, rule, regulation, or order to the extent that: (1) Compliance with both the state or local requirement and any requirement in this part is not possible; or (2) Compliance with the state or local requirement is an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of any requirement in this part. (b) This part shall not be construed to preempt provisions of state criminal laws that impose sanctions for reckless conduct attributed to prohibited drug use or alcohol misuse leading to actual loss of life, injury, or damage to property, whether the provisions apply specifically to transportation employees or employers or to the general public. &#xA7; 655.7 Starting date for testing programs. An employer must have an anti-drug and alcohol misuse testing program in place by the date the employer begins operations. Subpart B-Program Requirements &#xA7; 655.11 Requirement to establish an anti-drug use and alcohol misuse program. Each employer shall establish an anti-drug use and alcohol misuse program consistent with the requirements of this part. &#xA7; 655.12 Required elements of an anti-drug use and alcohol misuse program. An anti-drug use and alcohol misuse program shall include the following: (a) A statement describing the employer's policy on prohibited drug use and alcohol misuse in the workplace, including the consequences associated with prohibited drug use and alcohol misuse. This policy statement shall include all of the elements specified in &#xA7; 655.15. Each employer shall disseminate the policy consistent with the provisions of &#xA7; 655.16. (b) An education and training program which meets the requirements of &#xA7; 655.14. (c) A testing program, as described in Subparts C and D of this part, which meets the requirements of this part and 49 CFR Part 40. (d) Procedures for referring a covered employee who has a verified positive drug test result or an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater to a Substance Abuse Professional, consistent with 49 CFR Part 40. &#xA7; 655.13 [Reserved] &#xA7; 655.14 Education and training programs. Each employer shall establish an employee education and training program for all covered employees, including: (a) Education. The education component shall include display and distribution to every covered employee of: informational material and a community service hot-line telephone number for employee assistance, if available. (b) Training -(1) Covered employees. Covered employees must receive at least 60 minutes of training on the effects and consequences of prohibited drug use on personal health, safety, and the work environment, and on the signs and symptoms that may indicate prohibited drug use. (2) Supervisors. Supervisors and/or other company officers authorized by the employer to make reasonable suspicion determinations shall receive at least 60 minutes of training on the physical, behavioral, and performance indicators of probable drug use and at least 60 minutes of training on the physical, behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse. &#xA7; 655.15 Policy statement contents. The local governing board of the employer or operator shall adopt an anti-drug and alcohol misuse policy statement. The statement must be made available to each covered employee, and shall include the following: (a) The identity of the person, office, branch and/or position designated by the employer to answer employee questions about the employer's anti-drug use and alcohol misuse programs. (b) The categories of employees who are subject to the provisions of this part. (c) Specific information concerning the behavior and conduct prohibited by this part. (d) The specific circumstances under which a covered employee will be tested for prohibited drugs or alcohol misuse under this part. (e) The procedures that will be used to test for the presence of prohibited drugs or alcohol misuse, protect the employee and the integrity of the drug and alcohol testing process, safeguard the validity of the test results, and ensure the test results are attributed to the correct covered employee. (f) The requirement that a covered employee submit to drug and alcohol testing administered in accordance with this part. (g) A description of the kind of behavior that constitutes a refusal to take a drug or alcohol test, and a statement that such a refusal constitutes a violation of the employer's policy. (h) The consequences for a covered employee who has a verified positive drug or a confirmed alcohol test result with an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater, or who refuses to submit to a test under this part, including the mandatory requirements that the covered employee be removed immediately from his or her safety-sensitive function and be evaluated by a substance abuse professional, as required by 49 CFR Part 40. (i) The consequences, as set forth in &#xA7; 655.35 of subpart D, for a covered employee who is found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04. (j) The employer shall inform each covered employee if it implements elements of an anti-drug use or alcohol misuse program that are not required by this part. An employer may not impose requirements that are inconsistent with, contrary to, or frustrate the provisions of this part. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7; 655.16 Requirement to disseminate policy. Each employer shall provide written notice to every covered employee and to representatives of employee organizations of the employer's anti-drug and alcohol misuse policies and procedures. &#xA7; 655.17 Notice requirement. Before performing a drug or alcohol test under this part, each employer shall notify a covered employee that the test is required by this part. No employer shall falsely represent that a test is administered under this part. &#xA7;&#xA7; 655.18-655.20 [Reserved] Subpart C-Prohibited Drug Use &#xA7; 655.21 Drug testing. (a) An employer shall establish a program that provides testing for prohibited drugs and drug metabolites in the following circumstances: pre-employment, post-accident, reasonable suspicion, random, and return to duty/follow-up. (b) When administering a drug test, an employer shall ensure that the following drugs are tested for: (1) Marijuana; (2) Cocaine; (3) Opioids; (4) Amphetamines; and (5) Phencyclidine. (c) Consumption of these products is prohibited at all times. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 16775, Apr. 23, 2019] &#xA7;&#xA7; 655.22-655.30 [Reserved] Subpart D-Prohibited Alcohol Use &#xA7; 655.31 Alcohol testing. (a) An employer shall establish a program that provides for testing for alcohol in the following circumstances: post-accident, reasonable suspicion, random, and return to duty/follow-up. An employer may also conduct pre-employment alcohol testing. (b) Each employer shall prohibit a covered employee, while having an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater, from performing or continuing to perform a safety-sensitive function. &#xA7; 655.32 On duty use. Each employer shall prohibit a covered employee from using alcohol while performing safety-sensitive functions. No employer having actual knowledge that a covered employee is using alcohol while performing safety-sensitive functions shall permit the employee to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. &#xA7; 655.33 Pre-duty use. (a) General. Each employer shall prohibit a covered employee from using alcohol within 4 hours prior to performing safety-sensitive functions. No employer having actual knowledge that a covered employee has used alcohol within four hours of performing a safety-sensitive function shall permit the employee to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. (b) On-call employees. An employer shall prohibit the consumption of alcohol for the specified on-call hours of each covered employee who is on-call. The procedure shall include: (1) The opportunity for the covered employee to acknowledge the use of alcohol at the time he or she is called to report to duty and the inability to perform his or her safety-sensitive function. (2) The requirement that the covered employee take an alcohol test, if the covered employee has acknowledged the use of alcohol, but claims ability to perform his or her safety-sensitive function. &#xA7; 655.34 Use following an accident. Each employer shall prohibit alcohol use by any covered employee required to take a post-accident alcohol test under &#xA7; 655.44 for eight hours following the accident or until he or she undergoes a post-accident alcohol test, whichever occurs first. &#xA7; 655.35 Other alcohol-related conduct. (a) No employer shall permit a covered employee tested under the provisions of subpart E of this part who is found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04 to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions, until: (1) The employee's alcohol concentration measures less than 0.02; or (2) The start of the employee's next regularly scheduled duty period, but not less than eight hours following administration of the test. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, no employer shall take any action under this part against an employee based solely on test results showing an alcohol concentration less than 0.04. This does not prohibit an employer with authority independent of this part from taking any action otherwise consistent with law. &#xA7;&#xA7; 655.36-655.40 [Reserved] Subpart E-Types of Testing &#xA7; 655.41 Pre-employment drug testing. (a)(1) Before allowing a covered employee or applicant to perform a safety-sensitive function for the first time, the employer must ensure that the employee takes a pre-employment drug test administered under this part with a verified negative result. An employer may not allow a covered employee, including an applicant, to perform a safety-sensitive function unless the employee takes a drug test administered under this part with a verified negative result. (2) When a covered employee or applicant has previously failed or refused a pre-employment drug test administered under this part, the employee must provide the employer proof of having successfully completed a referral, evaluation and treatment plan as described in &#xA7; 655.62. (b) An employer may not transfer an employee from a nonsafety-sensitive function to a safety-sensitive function until the employee takes a pre-employment drug test administered under this part with a verified negative result. (c) If a pre-employment drug test is canceled, the employer shall require the covered employee or applicant to take another pre-employment drug test administered under this part with a verified negative result. (d) When a covered employee or applicant has not performed a safety-sensitive function for 90 consecutive calendar days regardless of the reason, and the employee has not been in the employer's random selection pool during that time, the employer shall ensure that the employee takes a pre-employment drug test with a verified negative result. &#xA7; 655.42 Pre-employment alcohol testing. An employer may, but is not required to, conduct pre-employment alcohol testing under this part. If an employer chooses to conduct pre-employment alcohol testing, the employer must comply with the following requirements: (a) The employer must conduct a pre-employment alcohol test before the first performance of safety-sensitive functions by every covered employee (whether a new employee or someone who has transferred to a position involving the performance of safety-sensitive functions). (b) The employer must treat all covered employees performing safety-sensitive functions the same for the purpose of pre-employment alcohol testing ( i.e. , you must not test some covered employees and not others). (c) The employer must conduct the pre-employment tests after making a contingent offer of employment or transfer, subject to the employee passing the pre-employment alcohol test. (d) The employer must conduct all pre-employment alcohol tests using the alcohol testing procedures set forth in 49 CFR Part 40. (e) The employer must not allow a covered employee to begin performing safety-sensitive functions unless the result of the employee's test indicates an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02. &#xA7; 655.43 Reasonable suspicion testing. (a) An employer shall conduct a drug and/or alcohol test when the employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that the covered employee has used a prohibited drug and/or engaged in alcohol misuse. (b) An employer's determination that reasonable suspicion exists shall be based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, or body odors of the covered employee. A supervisor(s), or other company official(s) who is trained in detecting the signs and symptoms of drug use and alcohol misuse must make the required observations. (c) Alcohol testing is authorized under this section only if the observations required by paragraph (b) of this section are made during, just preceding, or just after the period of the workday that the covered employee is required to be in compliance with this part. An employer may direct a covered employee to undergo reasonable suspicion testing for alcohol only while the employee is performing safety-sensitive functions; just before the employee is to perform safety-sensitive functions; or just after the employee has ceased performing such functions. (d) If an alcohol test required by this section is not administered within two hours following the determination under paragraph (b) of this section, the employer shall prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons the alcohol test was not promptly administered. If an alcohol test required by this section is not administered within eight hours following the determination under paragraph (b) of this section, the employer shall cease attempts to administer an alcohol test and shall state in the record the reasons for not administering the test. &#xA7; 655.44 Post-accident testing. (a) Accidents. (1) Fatal accidents. (i) As soon as practicable following an accident involving the loss of human life, an employer shall conduct drug and alcohol tests on each surviving covered employee operating the public transportation vehicle at the time of the accident. Post-accident drug and alcohol testing of the operator is not required under this section if the covered employee is tested under the fatal accident testing requirements of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration rule 49 CFR &#xA7; 382.303. (ii) The employer shall also drug and alcohol test any other covered employee whose performance could have contributed to the accident, as determined by the employer using the best information available at the time of the decision. (2) Nonfatal accidents. (i) As soon as practicable following an accident not involving the loss of human life in which a public transportation vehicle is involved, the employer shall drug and alcohol test each covered employee operating the public transportation vehicle at the time of the accident unless the employer determines, using the best information available at the time of the decision, that the covered employee's performance can be completely discounted as a contributing factor to the accident. The employer shall also drug and alcohol test any other covered employee whose performance could have contributed to the accident, as determined by the employer using the best information available at the time of the decision. (ii) If an alcohol test required by this section is not administered within two hours following the accident, the employer shall prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons the alcohol test was not promptly administered. If an alcohol test required by this section is not administered within eight hours following the accident, the employer shall cease attempts to administer an alcohol test and maintain the record. Records shall be submitted to FTA upon request of the Administrator. (b) An employer shall ensure that a covered employee required to be drug tested under this section is tested as soon as practicable but within 32 hours of the accident. (c) A covered employee who is subject to post-accident testing who fails to remain readily available for such testing, including notifying the employer or the employer representative of his or her location if he or she leaves the scene of the accident prior to submission to such test, may be deemed by the employer to have refused to submit to testing. (d) The decision not to administer a drug and/or alcohol test under this section shall be based on the employer's determination, using the best available information at the time of the determination that the employee's performance could not have contributed to the accident. Such a decision must be documented in detail, including the decision-making process used to reach the decision not to test. (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the delay of necessary medical attention for the injured following an accident or to prohibit a covered employee from leaving the scene of an accident for the period necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident or to obtain necessary emergency medical care. (f) The results of a blood, urine, or breath test for the use of prohibited drugs or alcohol misuse, conducted by Federal, State, or local officials having independent authority for the test, shall be considered to meet the requirements of this section provided such test conforms to the applicable Federal, State, or local testing requirements, and that the test results are obtained by the employer. Such test results may be used only when the employer is unable to perform a post-accident test within the required period noted in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 37993, June 25, 2013; 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7; 655.45 Random testing. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing shall be 50 percent of covered employees; the random alcohol testing rate shall be 10 percent. As provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this rate is subject to annual review by the Administrator. (b) The Administrator's decision to increase or decrease the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug and alcohol testing is based, respectively, on the reported positive drug and alcohol violation rates for the entire industry. All information used for this determination is drawn from the drug and alcohol Management Information System (MIS) reports required by this part. In order to ensure reliability of the data, the Administrator shall consider the quality and completeness of the reported data, may obtain additional information or reports from employers, and may make appropriate modifications in calculating the industry's verified positive results and violation rates. Each year, the Administrator will publish in the Federal Register the minimum annual percentage rates for random drug and alcohol testing of covered employees. The new minimum annual percentage rate for random drug and alcohol testing will be applicable starting January 1 of the calendar year following publication. (c) Rates for drug testing. (1) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 50 percent, the Administrator may lower this rate to 25 percent of all covered employees if the Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 655.72 for the two preceding consecutive calendar years indicate that the reported positive rate is less than 1.0 percent. (2) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 25 percent, and the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 655.72 for the calendar year indicate that the reported positive rate is equal to or greater than 1.0 percent, the Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug or random alcohol testing to 50 percent of all covered employees. (d) Rates for alcohol testing. (1)(i) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 25 percent or more, the Administrator may lower this rate to 10 percent of all covered employees if the Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 655.72 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the violation rate is less than 0.5 percent. (ii) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 50 percent, the Administrator may lower this rate to 25 percent of all covered employees if the Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 655.72 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the violation rate is less than 1.0 percent but equal to or greater than 0.5 percent. (2)(i) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 10 percent, and the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 655.72 for that calendar year indicate that the violation rate is equal to or greater than 0.5 percent, but less than 1.0 percent, the Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing to 25 percent of all covered employees. (ii) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 25 percent or less, and the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 655.72 for that calendar year indicate that the violation rate is equal to or greater than 1.0 percent, the Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing to 50 percent of all covered employees. (e) The selection of employees for random drug and alcohol testing shall be made by a scientifically valid method, such as a random number table or a computer-based random number generator that is matched with employees' Social Security numbers, payroll identification numbers, or other comparable identifying numbers. Under the selection process used, each covered employee shall have an equal chance of being tested each time selections are made. (f) The employer shall randomly select a sufficient number of covered employees for testing during each calendar year to equal an annual rate not less than the minimum annual percentage rates for random drug and alcohol testing determined by the Administrator. If the employer conducts random drug and alcohol testing through a consortium, the number of employees to be tested may be calculated for each individual employer or may be based on the total number of covered employees covered by the consortium who are subject to random drug and alcohol testing at the same minimum annual percentage rate under this part. (g) Each employer shall ensure that random drug and alcohol tests conducted under this part are unannounced and unpredictable, and that the dates for administering random tests are spread reasonably throughout the calendar year. Random testing must be conducted at all times of day when safety-sensitive functions are performed. (h) Each employer shall require that each covered employee who is notified of selection for random drug or random alcohol testing proceed to the test site immediately. If the employee is performing a safety-sensitive function at the time of the notification, the employer shall instead ensure that the employee ceases to perform the safety-sensitive function and proceeds to the testing site immediately. (i) A covered employee shall only be randomly tested for alcohol misuse while the employee is performing safety-sensitive functions; just before the employee is to perform safety-sensitive functions; or just after the employee has ceased performing such functions. A covered employee may be randomly tested for prohibited drug use anytime while on duty. (j) If a given covered employee is subject to random drug and alcohol testing under the testing rules of more than one DOT agency for the same employer, the employee shall be subject to random drug and alcohol testing at the percentage rate established for the calendar year by the DOT agency regulating more than 50 percent of the employee's function. (k) If an employer is required to conduct random drug and alcohol testing under the drug and alcohol testing rules of more than one DOT agency, the employer may- (1) Establish separate pools for random selection, with each pool containing the covered employees who are subject to testing at the same required rate; or (2) Randomly select such employees for testing at the highest percentage rate established for the calendar year by any DOT agency to which the employer is subject. &#xA7; 655.46 Return to duty following refusal to submit to a test, verified positive drug test result and/or breath alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater. Where a covered employee refuses to submit to a test, has a verified positive drug test result, and/or has a confirmed alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater, the employer, before returning the employee to duty to perform a safety-sensitive function, shall follow the procedures outlined in 49 CFR Part 40. &#xA7; 655.47 Follow-up testing after returning to duty. An covered employer shall conduct follow-up testing of each employee who returns to duty, as specified in 49 CFR Part 40, subpart O. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7; 655.48 Retesting of covered employees with an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04. If an employer chooses to permit a covered employee to perform a safety-sensitive function within 8 hours of an alcohol test indicating an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04, the employer shall retest the covered employee to ensure compliance with the provisions of &#xA7; 655.35. The covered employee may not perform safety-sensitive functions unless the confirmation alcohol test result is less than 0.02. &#xA7; 655.49 Refusal to submit to a drug or alcohol test. (a) Each employer shall require a covered employee to submit to a post-accident drug and alcohol test required under &#xA7; 655.44, a random drug and alcohol test required under &#xA7; 655.45, a reasonable suspicion drug and alcohol test required under &#xA7; 655.43, or a follow-up drug and alcohol test required under &#xA7; 655.47. No employer shall permit an employee who refuses to submit to such a test to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. (b) When an employee refuses to submit to a drug or alcohol test, the employer shall follow the procedures outlined in 49 CFR Part 40. &#xA7; 655.50 [Reserved] Subpart F-Drug and Alcohol Testing Procedures &#xA7; 655.51 Compliance with testing procedures requirements. The drug and alcohol testing procedures in 49 CFR Part 40 apply to employers covered by this part, and must be read together with this part, unless expressly provided otherwise in this part. &#xA7; 655.52 Substance abuse professional (SAP). The SAP must perform the functions in 49 CFR Part 40. &#xA7; 655.53 Supervisor acting as collection site personnel. An employer shall not permit an employee with direct or immediate supervisory responsibility or authority over another employee to serve as the urine or oral fluid collector, breath alcohol technician, or saliva-testing technician for a drug or alcohol test of the employee. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7;&#xA7; 655.54-655.60 [Reserved] Subpart G-Consequences &#xA7; 655.61 Action when an employee has a verified positive drug test result or has a confirmed alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater, or refuses to submit to a test. (a)(1) Immediately after receiving notice from a medical review officer (MRO) or a consortium/third party administrator (C/TPA) that a covered employee has a verified positive drug test result, the employer shall require that the covered employee cease performing a safety-sensitive function. (2) Immediately after receiving notice from a Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) that a covered employee has a confirmed alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater, the employer shall require that the covered employee cease performing a safety-sensitive function. (3) If a covered employee refuses to submit to a drug or alcohol test required by this part, the employer shall require that the covered employee cease performing a safety-sensitive function. (b) Before allowing the covered employee to resume performing a safety-sensitive function, the employer shall ensure the employee meets the requirements of 49 CFR Part 40 for returning to duty, including taking a return to duty drug and/or alcohol test. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 87 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7; 655.62 Referral, evaluation, and treatment. If a covered employee has a verified positive drug test result, or has a confirmed alcohol test of 0.04 or greater, or refuses to submit to a drug or alcohol test required by this part, the employer shall advise the employee of the resources available for evaluating and resolving problems associated with prohibited drug use and alcohol misuse, including the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of substance abuse professionals (SAPs) and counseling and treatment programs. &#xA7;&#xA7; 655.63-655.70 [Reserved] Subpart H-Administrative Requirements &#xA7; 655.71 Retention of records. (a) General requirement. An employer shall maintain records of its anti-drug and alcohol misuse program as provided in this section. The records shall be maintained in a secure location with controlled access. (b) Period of retention. In determining compliance with the retention period requirement, each record shall be maintained for the specified minimum period of time as measured from the date of the creation of the record. Each employer shall maintain the records in accordance with the following schedule: (1) Five years. Records of covered employee verified positive drug or alcohol test results, documentation of refusals to take required drug or alcohol tests, and covered employee referrals to the substance abuse professional, and copies of annual MIS reports submitted to FTA. (2) Two years. Records related to the collection process and employee training. (3) One year. Records of negative drug or alcohol test results. (c) Types of records. The following specific records must be maintained: (1) Records related to the collection process: (i) Collection logbooks, if used. (ii) Documents relating to the random selection process. (iii) Documents generated in connection with decisions to administer reasonable suspicion drug or alcohol tests. (iv) Documents generated in connection with decisions on post-accident drug and alcohol testing. (v) MRO documents verifying existence of a medical explanation of the inability of a covered employee to provide an adequate urine or oral fluid or breath sample. (2) Records related to test results: (i) The employer's copy of the custody and control form. (ii) Documents related to the refusal of any covered employee to submit to a test required by this part. (iii) Documents presented by a covered employee to dispute the result of a test administered under this part. (3) Records related to referral and return to duty and follow-up testing: Records concerning a covered employee's entry into and completion of the treatment program recommended by the substance abuse professional. (4) Records related to employee training: (i) Training materials on drug use awareness and alcohol misuse, including a copy of the employer's policy on prohibited drug use and alcohol misuse. (ii) Names of covered employees attending training on prohibited drug use and alcohol misuse and the dates and times of such training. (iii) Documentation of training provided to supervisors for the purpose of qualifying the supervisors to make a determination concerning the need for drug and alcohol testing based on reasonable suspicion. (iv) Certification that any training conducted under this part complies with the requirements for such training. (5) Copies of annual MIS reports submitted to FTA. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 87 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7; 655.72 Reporting of results in a management information system. (a) Each recipient shall annually prepare and maintain a summary of the results of its anti-drug and alcohol misuse testing programs performed under this part during the previous calendar year. (b) When requested by FTA, each recipient shall submit to FTA's Office of Safety and Security, or its designated agent, by March 15, a report covering the previous calendar year (January 1 through December 31) summarizing the results of its anti-drug and alcohol misuse programs. (c) Each recipient shall be responsible for ensuring the accuracy and timeliness of each report submitted by an employer, contractor, consortium or joint enterprise or by a third party service provider acting on the recipient's or employer's behalf. (d) As an employer, you must use the Management Information System (MIS) form and instructions as required by 49 CFR part 40, &#xA7; 40.25 and appendix H. You may also use the electronic version of the MIS form provided by the DOT. The Administrator may designate means (e.g., electronic program transmitted via the Internet), other than hard-copy, for MIS form submission. For information on where to submit MIS forms and for the electronic version of the form, see: http://transit-safety.volpe.dot.gov/DAMIS. (e) To calculate the total number of covered employees eligible for random testing throughout the year, as an employer, you must add the total number of covered employees eligible for testing during each random testing period for the year and divide that total by the number of random testing periods. Covered employees, and only covered employees, are to be in an employer's random testing pool, and all covered employees must be in the random pool. If you are an employer conducting random testing more often than once per month (e.g., you select daily, weekly, bi-weekly), you do not need to compute this total number of covered employees rate more than on a once per month basis. As an employer, you may use a service agent (e.g., C/TPA) to perform random selections for you; and your covered employees may be part of a larger random testing pool of covered employees. However, you must ensure that the service agent you use is testing at the appropriate percentage established for your industry and that only covered employees are in the random testing pool. (f) If you have a covered employee who performs multi-DOT agency functions (e.g., an employee drives a paratransit vehicle and performs pipeline maintenance duties for you), count the employee only on the MIS report for the DOT agency under which he or she is random tested. Normally, this will be the DOT agency under which the employee performs more than 50% of his or her duties. Employers may have to explain the testing data for these employees in the event of a DOT agency inspection or audit. (g) A service agent (e.g., Consortia/Third Party Administrator as defined in 49 CFR part 40) may prepare the MIS report on behalf of an employer. However, a company official (e.g., Designated Employer Representative as defined in 49 CFR part 40) must certify the accuracy and completeness of the MIS report, no matter who prepares it. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 75462, Dec. 31, 2003] &#xA7; 655.73 Access to facilities and records. (a) Except as required by law, or expressly authorized or required in this section, no employer may release information pertaining to a covered employee that is contained in records required to be maintained by &#xA7; 655.71. (b) A covered employee is entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of any records pertaining to the covered employee's use of prohibited drugs or misuse of alcohol, including any records pertaining to his or her drug or alcohol tests. The employer shall provide promptly the records requested by the employee. Access to a covered employee's records shall not be contingent upon the employer's receipt of payment for the production of those records. (c) An employer shall permit access to all facilities utilized and records compiled in complying with the requirements of this part to the Secretary of Transportation or any DOT agency with regulatory authority over the employer or any of its employees or to a State oversight agency authorized to oversee rail fixed guideway systems. (d) An employer shall disclose data for its drug and alcohol testing programs, and any other information pertaining to the employer's anti-drug and alcohol misuse programs required to be maintained by this part, to the Secretary of Transportation or any DOT agency with regulatory authority over the employer or covered employee or to a State oversight agency authorized to oversee rail fixed guideway systems, upon the Secretary's request or the respective agency's request. (e) When requested by the National Transportation Safety Board as part of an accident investigation, employers shall disclose information related to the employer's drug or alcohol testing related to the accident under investigation. (f) Records shall be made available to a subsequent employer upon receipt of a written request from the covered employee. Subsequent disclosure by the employer is permitted only as expressly authorized by the terms of the covered employee's request. (g) An employer may disclose information required to be maintained under this part pertaining to a covered employee to the employee or the decisionmaker in a lawsuit, grievance, or other proceeding initiated by or on behalf of the individual, and arising from the results of a drug or alcohol test under this part (including, but not limited to, a worker's compensation, unemployment compensation, or other proceeding relating to a benefit sought by the covered employee.) (h) An employer shall release information regarding a covered employee's record as directed by the specific, written consent of the employee authorizing release of the information to an identified person. (i) An employer may disclose drug and alcohol testing information required to be maintained under this part, pertaining to a covered employee, to the State oversight agency or grantee required to certify to FTA compliance with the drug and alcohol testing procedures of 49 CFR parts 40 and 655. &#xA7;&#xA7; 655.74-655.80 [Reserved] Subpart I-Certifying Compliance &#xA7; 655.81 Grantee oversight responsibility. A recipient shall ensure that a subrecipient or contractor who receives 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, or 5311 funds directly from the recipient complies with this part. [78 FR 37993, June 25, 2013] &#xA7; 655.82 Compliance as a condition of financial assistance. (a) A recipient shall not be eligible for Federal financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, or 5311, if a recipient fails to establish an anti-drug and alcohol misuse program in compliance with this part. (b) If the Administrator determines that a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, or 5311 is not in compliance with this part, the Administrator may bar the recipient from receiving Federal financial assistance in an amount the Administrator considers appropriate. (c) A recipient is subject to criminal sanctions and fines for false statements or misrepresentations under 18 U.S.C. 1001. (d) Notwithstanding &#xA7; 655.3, a recipient operating a ferryboat regulated by the USCG who fails to comply with the USCG chemical and alcohol testing requirements, shall be in noncompliance with this part and may be barred from receiving Federal financial assistance in an amount the Administrator considers appropriate. [78 FR 37993, June 25, 2013] &#xA7; 655.83 Requirement to certify compliance. (a) A recipient of Federal financial assistance under section 5307, 5309, or 5311 shall annually certify compliance with this part to the applicable FTA Regional Office. (b) A certification must be authorized by the organization's governing board or other authorizing official, and must be signed by a party specifically authorized to do so. (c) Recipients, including a State, that administers 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, or 5311 Federal financial assistance to subrecipients and contractors, shall annually certify compliance with the requirements of this part, on behalf of its applicable subrecipient or contractor to the applicable FTA Regional Office. A recipient administering section 5307, 5309, or 5311 Federal funding may suspend a subrecipient or contractor from receiving Federal transit funds for noncompliance with this part. [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 69198, Nov. 30, 2006; 78 FR 37993, June 25, 2013]