PART 10-MAINTENANCE OF AND ACCESS TO RECORDS PERTAINING TO INDIVIDUALS Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a; 49 U.S.C. 322. Source: 45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-Applicability and Policy &#xA7; 10.1 Applicability. This part implements section 552a of title 5, United States Code, as well as other provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, and prescribes rules governing the availability of those records of the Department of Transportation which relate to citizens of the United States and aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23666, May 1, 1997] &#xA7; 10.3 Policy. It is the policy of the Department of Transportation to comply with the letter and the spirit of the Privacy Act (the Act). Therefore, personal data contained in each system of records is afforded adequate protection against unauthorized access, is as accurate as is feasible, and is limited to that necessary to accomplish the stated use or uses of the system. Further, no system of records is exempted from the requirements of the Act unless it is determined that to do so is in the best interest of the government with due concern for individual rights. &#xA7; 10.5 Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions apply in this part: Administrator means the head of an operating administration and includes the Under Secretary for Security and the Commandant of the Coast Guard. Department means the Department of Transportation, including the Office of the Secretary, the Office of Inspector General, and the following operating administrations: This definition specifically excludes the Surface Transportation Board, which has its own Privacy Act regulations (49 CFR Part 1007), except to the extent that any system of records notice provides otherwise. (1) Federal Aviation Administration. (2) Federal Highway Administration. (3) Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. (4) Federal Railroad Administration. (5) Federal Transit Administration. (6) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. (7) St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. (8) Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. (9) Research and Innovative Technology Administration. (10) Maritime Administration. General Counsel means the General Counsel of the Department. Includes means &#x201C;includes but is not limited to;&#x201D; Individual means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted; Maintain includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate; May is used in a permissive sense to state authority or permission to do the act prescribed; Record means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Department including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the name of, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to, the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph; Secretary means the Secretary of Transportation or any person to whom has been delegated authority in the matter concerned; System of records means a group of any records under the control of the Department from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual; Statistical record means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by section 8 of title 13, United States Code; and Routine use means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997; 65 FR 48184, Aug. 7, 2000; 67 FR 54746, Aug. 26, 2002; 73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008] Subpart B-General &#xA7; 10.11 Administration of part. Authority to administer this part in connection with the records of the Office of the Secretary is delegated to the Chief Information Officer. Authority to administer this part in connection with records in each operating administration is delegated to the Administrator concerned. An Administrator may redelegate to officers of that administration the authority to administer this part in connection with defined systems of records. An Administrator, however, may redelegate his or her duties under subparts F and G of this part only to his or her deputy and to not more than one other officer who reports directly to the Administrator and who is located at the headquarters of that administration or at the same location as the majority of that administration's systems of records. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997; 73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008] &#xA7; 10.13 Privacy Officer. (a) To assist with implementation, evaluation, and administration issues, the Chief Information Officer appoints a principal coordinating official with the title Privacy Officer, and one Privacy Act Coordinator from his/her staff. (b) Inquiries concerning Privacy Act matters, or requests for assistance, may be addressed to the Privacy Act Officer (S-80), Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590. (c) Administrators may designate Privacy Officers or Coordinators to act as central coordinators within their administrations to assist them in administering the Act. [73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008] &#xA7; 10.15 Protection of records. (a) No person may, without permission, remove any record made available for inspection or copying under this part from the place where it is made available. In addition, no person may steal, alter, mutilate, obliterate, or destroy, in whole or in part, such a record. (b) Section 641 of title 18 of the United States Code provides, in pertinent part, as follows: Whoever * * * steals, purloins, or knowingly converts to his use or the use of another, or without authority, sells, conveys or disposes of any record * * * or thing of value of the United States or of any department or agency thereof * * * shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than 10 years or both; but if the value of such property does not exceed the sum of $100, he shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year or both * * *. (c) Section 2071 of title 18 of the United States Code provides, in pertinent part, as follows: Whoever willfully and unlawfully conceals, removes, mutilates, obliterates, or destroys, or attempts to do so, or with intent to do so takes and carries away any record, proceeding, map, book, paper, document, or other thing, filed or deposited * * * in any public office, or with any * * * public officer of the United States, shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more than 3 years, or both. Subpart C-Maintenance of Records &#xA7; 10.21 General. Except to the extent that a system of records is exempt in accordance with subpart G of this part, the Department, with respect to each system of records: (a) Maintains in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the Department required to be accomplished by statute or by executive order of the President; (b) Collects information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, or privileges under Federal programs; (c) Informs each individual whom it asks to supply information, on the form which it uses to collect the information or on a separate form that can be retained by the individual of: (1) The authority (whether granted by statute, or by executive order of the President) which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary; (2) The principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used; (3) The routine uses, as published pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, which may be made of the information; and (4) The effects, if any, on the individual of not providing all or any part of the requested information; (d) Publishes in the Federal Register at least annually a notice of the existence and character of the system of records, including: (1) The name and location of the system; (2) The categories of individuals on whom records are maintained in the system; (3) The categories of records maintained in the system; (4) Each routine use of the records contained in the system, including the categories of users and the purpose of such use; (5) The policies and practices regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention, and disposal of the records; (6) The title and business address of the official responsible for the system of records; (7) The procedures whereby an individual can be notified upon request if the system of records contains a record pertaining to that individual; (8) The procedures whereby an individual can be notified upon request how to gain access to any record pertaining to that individual contained in the system of records, and how to contest its content; and (9) The categories of sources of records in the system; (e) Maintains all records which are used in making any determination about any individual with such accuracy, relevancy, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination; (f) Prior to disseminating any record about an individual to any person other than an agency, unless the dissemination is made pursuant to &#xA7; 10.35(a)(2), makes reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely, and relevant for the Department's purposes; (g) Maintains no record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless: (1) Expressly authorized by the General Counsel; and (2) Expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity; (h) Makes reasonable efforts to serve notice on an individual when any record on such individual is made available to any person under compulsory legal process when such process becomes a matter of public record. &#xA7; 10.23 Accounting of disclosures. Each operating administration, the Office of Inspector General, and the Office of the Secretary, with respect to each system of records under its control: (a) Except for disclosures made under &#xA7; 10.35(a) (1) or (2) of this part, keep an accurate accounting of: (1) The date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record to any person or to another agency made under &#xA7; 10.33; and (2) The name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure is made; (b) Retains the accounting made under paragraph (a) of this section for at least five years or the life of the record, whichever is longer, after the disclosure for which the accounting is made; (c) Except for disclosures made under &#xA7; 10.33(a)(7) of this part, makes the accounting made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section available to the individual named in the record at his request; and (d) Informs any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute made by the agency in accordance with &#xA7; 10.45 of any record that has been disclosed to the person or agency if an accounting of the disclosure was made. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997] &#xA7; 10.25 Mailing lists. An individual's name and address is not sold or rented unless such action is specifically authorized by law. This provision shall not be construed to require the withholding of names and addresses otherwise permitted to be made public. &#xA7; 10.27 Government contractors. When the Department provides by a contract for the operation by or on behalf of the Department of a system of records to accomplish a function of the Department, the requirements of this part are applied to such system. For purposes of subpart I, Criminal Penalties, any such contractor and any employee of the contractor are considered, in accordance with section 3(m) of the Privacy Act, to be employees of the Department. &#xA7; 10.29 Social Security numbers. (a) No individual is denied any right, benefit, or privilege provided by law because of such individual's refusal to disclose his Social Security account number. (b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to: (1) Any disclosure which is required by Federal statute; or (2) The disclosure of a Social Security number when such disclosure was required under statute or regulation adopted prior to January 1, 1975, to verify the identity of an individual. (c) When an individual is requested to disclose his or her Social Security account number, that individual is informed whether that disclosure is mandatory or voluntary, by what statutory or other authority such number is solicited, what uses are made of it, and what detriments, including delay in the location of records, are incurred if the number is not provided. Subpart D-Availability of Records &#xA7; 10.31 Requests for records. (a) Ordinarily, each person desiring to determine whether a record pertaining to him/her is contained in a system of records covered by this part or desiring access to a record covered by this part, or to obtain a copy of such a record, shall make a request in writing addressed to the system manager. The &#x201C;Privacy Act Issuances&#x201D; published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, describes the systems of records maintained by all Federal agencies, including the Department and its components. In exceptional cases oral requests are accepted. A description of DOT Privacy Act systems notices is available through the Internet free of charge at http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/aces/PrivacyAct.shtml?desc015.html. See &#xA7; 10.13(b) regarding inquiries concerning Privacy Act matters or requests for assistance. (b) Each request shall specify the name of the requesting individual and the system of records in which the subject record is located or thought to be located. If assistance is required to determine the system of records identification number assigned in the systems notices, such assistance may be obtained from the appropriate Privacy Act officer or his assistant. Refer to &#xA7; 10.13 for procedures for requesting assistance. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997] &#xA7; 10.33 Acknowledgment and access. (a) Requests by an individual to determine whether he or she is the subject of a record in a system of records, or requesting access to a record in a system of records, should be acknowledged within 10 working days, where the request is by mail. For requests in person, an immediate response is given, either granting access or informing such individual when notification or access may be expected. (b) If the response granting access or copies of the record is made within 10 working days, separate acknowledgment is not required. (c) Although requests for access to a record are normally in writing, e.g., by filing a written form or letter, it is the option of the individual to mail or present the request form in person. &#xA7; 10.35 Conditions of disclosure. (a) No record that is contained within a system of records of the Department is disclosed by any means of communication to any person, or to another agency, except pursuant to a written request by, or with the prior written consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, unless disclosure of the record would be: (1) To those officers and employees of the Department who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties; (2) Required under part 7 of this title which implements the Freedom of Information Act; (3) For a routine use as defined in &#xA7; 10.5 and described pursuant to &#xA7; 10.21(d)(4); (4) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions of title 13, United States Code; (5) To a recipient who has provided the Department with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable; (6) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine whether the record has such value; (7) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the agency which maintains the record specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought; (8) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if upon such disclosure notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual; (9) To either House of the Congress, or to the extent of matters within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of the Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee; (10) To the Comptroller General, or any authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office; or (11) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. (12) To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(f). (b) Any individual requesting access to his or her record or to any information pertaining to that individual which is contained within a system of records within the Department has access to that record or information unless the system of records within which the record or information is contained is exempted from disclosure in accordance with subpart G, provided, however, that nothing in this part is deemed to require that an individual be given access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding. No exemption contained in subpart G of part 7 of the regulations of the Office of the Secretary is relied upon to withhold from an individual any record which is otherwise accessible to such individual under the provisions of this part. Any individual who is given access to a record or information pertaining to him is permitted to have a person of his or her own choosing accompany him and to have a copy made of all or any portion of the record or information in a form comprehensible to the individual. When deemed appropriate, the individual may be required to furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of his record in the accompanying person's presence. (c) Medical records. Where requests are for access to medical records, including psychological records, the decision to release directly to the individual, or to withhold direct release, shall be made by a medical practitioner. Where the medical practitioner has ruled that direct release will do harm to the individual who is requesting access, normal release through the individual's chosen medical practitioner will be recommended. Final review and decision on appeals of disapprovals of direct release will rest with the General Counsel. (d) Any person requesting access to records or to any information pertaining to other individuals is not granted such access unless that person can show that he or she has obtained permission for such access from the individual to whom the record pertains, unless the request comes within one of the exceptions of paragraph (a) of this section. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997] &#xA7; 10.37 Identification of individual making request. No record or information contained in a system of records is disclosed to an individual nor is any correction of a record in accordance with subpart E made at the request of an individual unless that individual demonstrates that he or she is who he or she claims to be. Normally, identity can be proven for individuals who appear in person by the presentation of an identifying document issued by a recognized organization ( e.g., a driver's license or a credit card) and which contains a means of verification such as a photograph or a signature. For requests by mail, the unique identifier used in the system should be included if known. Responses to mail requests are normally sent only to the name and address listed in the system of records. In the case of particularly sensitive records, additional identification requirements may be imposed. In such cases, these additional requirements are listed in the public notice for the system. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997] &#xA7; 10.39 Location of records. Each record made available under this subpart is available for inspection and copying during regular working hours at the place where it is located, or, upon reasonable notice, at the document inspection facilities of the Office of the Secretary or each administration. Original records may be copied but may not be released from custody. Upon payment of the appropriate fee, copies are mailed to the requester. [62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997] Subpart E-Correction of Records &#xA7; 10.41 Requests for correction of records. Any person who desires to have a record pertaining to that person corrected shall submit a written request detailing the correction and the reasons the record should be so corrected. Requests for correction of records shall be submitted to the System Manager. [62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997] &#xA7; 10.43 Time limits. Within ten days (excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays) of the receipt in accordance with &#xA7; 10.41 of a request by an individual to amend a record pertaining to him, the receipt of the request is acknowledged in writing. If a determination is made to correct the record as requested, the correction is promptly made. If a determination is made not to correct a record the individual is informed promptly of the right to appeal in accordance with subpart F. If an appeal of a refusal to correct a record is in accordance with subpart F, a determination whether to correct the record is made within thirty days (excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays) of the receipt of the appeal unless, for good cause shown the Administrator concerned, or in the case of the Office of the Secretary, the General Counsel, extends such period. Where an extension is taken, the party taking the appeal is promptly notified of such fact. &#xA7; 10.45 Statement of disagreement. If a determination is made not to amend a record, the requester is informed of the right to file a concise statement setting forth the reasons for disagreement with the refusal to amend. In any disclosure containing information about which an individual has filed such a statement of disagreement, the portions of the record which are disputed are noted clearly and copies of the statement of disagreement provided. If the Administrator concerned or his or her delegee, or in the case of the Office of the Secretary, the General Counsel or his or her delegee, deems it appropriate, copies of a concise statement of the reasons for not making the amendments requested may be provided along with the statement of disagreement. Subpart F-Procedures for Reconsidering Decisions Not To Grant Access to or Amend Records &#xA7; 10.51 General. (a) Each officer or employee of the Department who, upon a request by a member of the public for a record under this part, makes a determination that access is not to be granted or who determines not to amend a record in a requested manner, gives a written statement of the reasons for that determination to the person making the request and indicates the name and title or position of each person responsible for the denial of such request and the procedure for appeal within the Department. (b) Any person: (1) Who has been given a determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, that access will not be granted; or (2) Who has been informed that an amendment to a requested record will not be made; may apply to the Administrator concerned, or in the case of the Office of the Secretary, to the General Counsel for review of that decision. A determination that access will not be granted or a record amended is not administratively final for the purposes of judicial review unless it was made by the Administrator concerned or his or her delegee, or the General Counsel or his or her delegee, as the case may be. Upon a determination that an appeal will be denied, the requester is informed in writing of the reasons for the determination, and the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the determination, and that the determination may be appealed to the District Court of the United States in the district in which the complainant resides, or has his or her principal place of business, or in which the records are located, or in the District of Columbia. (c) Each application for review must be made in writing and must include all information and arguments relied upon by the person making the request, and be submitted within 30 days of the date of the initial denial; exceptions to this time period are permitted for good reason. (d) Upon a determination that a request for the correction of a record will be denied, the requester is informed that he may file a concise statement in accordance with &#xA7; 10.45. (e) Each application for review must indicate that it is an appeal from a denial of a request made under the Privacy Act. The envelope in which the application is sent should be marked prominently with the words &#x201C;Privacy Act.&#x201D; If these requirements are not met, the time limits described in &#xA7; 10.43 do not begin to run until the application has been identified by an employee of the Department as an application under the Privacy Act and has been received by the appropriate office. (f) The Administrator concerned, or the General Counsel, as the case may be, may require the person making the request to furnish additional information, or proof of factual allegations, and may order other proceedings appropriate in the circumstances. The decision of the Administrator concerned, or the General Counsel, as the case may be, as to the availability of the record or whether to amend the record is administratively final. (g) The decision by the Administrator concerned, or the General Counsel, as the case may be, not to disclose a record under this part is considered a determination for the purposes of section 552a(g) of title 5, United States Code, &#x201C;Civil Remedies.&#x201D; (h) Any final decision by an Administrator or his/her delegate not to grant access to or amend a record under this part is subject to concurrence by the General Counsel or his or her delegate. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997] Subpart G-Exemptions &#xA7; 10.61 General exemptions. (a) The Assistant Secretary for Administration, with regard to the Investigations Division; and the Federal Aviation Administrator, with regard to the FAA's Investigative Record System (DOT/FAA 815) may exempt from any part of the Act and this part except subsections (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), and (11), and (i) of the Act, and implementing &#xA7;&#xA7; 10.35, 10.23(a) and (b), 10.21(d)(1) through (6), 10.81, 10.83, and 10.85 of this chapter, any systems of records, or portions thereof, which they maintain which consist wholly of; (1) Information compiled for the purpose of identifying individual criminal offenders and alleged offenders and consisting only of identifying data and notations of arrests, the nature and disposition of criminal charges, sentencing, confinement, release, and parole and probation status; (2) Information compiled for the purpose of a criminal investigation, including reports of informants and investigators, and associated with an identifiable individual; or (3) Reports identifiable to an individual compiled at any stage of the process of enforcement of the criminal laws from arrest or indictment through release from supervision. (b) The requirements (including general notice) of sections 553(b)(1), (2) and (3), and (c) and (e) of title 5, United States Code, will be met by publication in appendix A to this part, which must, at a minimum, specify: (1) The name of the system; and (2) The specific provisions of the Act from which the system is to be exempted and the reasons therefor. (c) Any decision to exempt a system of records under this section is subject to concurrence by the General Counsel. (d) Any person may petition the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of part 5 of this title, to institute a rulemaking proceeding for the amendment or repeal of any exemptions established under this section. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 67697, Dec. 22, 1993; 73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008] &#xA7; 10.63 Specific exemptions. The Secretary or his or her delegee, in the case of the Office of the Secretary; or the Administrator or his or delegee, in the case of an operating administration; or the Inspector General or his or her delegee, in the case of the Office of Inspector General, may exempt any system of records that is maintained by the Office of the Secretary, an operating administration, or the Office of Inspector General, as the case may be, from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of the Act and implementing &#xA7;&#xA7; 10.23(c); 10.35(b); 10.41; 10.43; 10.45; 10.21(a) and 10.21(d)(6), (7), and (8) of this chapter, under the following conditions: (a) The system of records must consist of: (1) Records subject to the provisions of section 552(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code; (2) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of &#xA7; 10.61(a)(2): Provided, however, That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit to which that individual would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which that individual would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material is provided to such individual, except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, the effective date of the Privacy Act of 1974, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence; (3) Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to section 3056 of title 18, United States Code; (4) Records required by statute to be maintained and used solely as statistical records; (5) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, the effective date of the Privacy Act of 1974, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence; (6) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process; or (7) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to the effective date of this section, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. (b) The requirements (including general notice) of sections 553 (b) (1), (2) and (3), and (c) and (e) of title 5, United States Code, will be met by publication in appendix A to this part, which must, at a minimum, specify: (1) The name of the systems; and (2) The specific provisions of the Act from which the system is to be exempted and the reasons therefor. (c) Any decision to exempt a system of records under this section is subject to the concurrence of the General Counsel. (d) Any person may petition the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR part 5, to institute a rulemaking for the amendment or repeal of any exemptions established under this section. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 23667, May 1, 1997; 73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008] Subpart H-Fees &#xA7; 10.71 General. This subpart prescribes fees for services performed for the public under this part by the Department. &#xA7; 10.73 Payment of fees. The fees prescribed in this subpart may be paid by check, draft, or postal money order payable to the Treasury of the United States. &#xA7; 10.75 Fee schedule. (a) Copies of documents by photocopy or similar method: Each page not larger than 11 &#xD7; 17 inches: First page $.25 Each page .05 (b) Copies of documents by typewriter: Each page 2.00 (c) Certified copies of documents: (1) With Department of Transportation seal 3.00 (2) True copy, without seal 1.00 (d) Photographs: (1) Black and white print (from negative) 1.25 (2) Black and white print (from print) 3.15 (3) Color print (from negative) 3.50 (4) Color print (from print) 6.25 (e) Duplicate data tapes-each reel of tape or fraction thereof 36.00 The applicant must furnish the necessary number of blank magnetic tapes. The tapes must be compatible for use in the supplier's computer system, 1/2 inch wide and 2,400 feet long, and must be capable of recording data at a density of 556 or 800 characters per inch. Unless otherwise designated, the tapes will be recorded at 556 CPI density. The Department of Transportation is not responsible for damaged tape. However, if the applicant furnishes a replacement for a damaged tape, the duplication process is completed at no additional charge. (f) Microreproduction fees are as follows: (1) Microfilm copies, each 100 foot roll or less $3.75 (2) Microfiche copies, each standard size sheet (4&#x2033; &#xD7; 6&#x2033; containing up to 65 frames) .15 (3) Apertune card to hard copy, each copy .50 (4) 16mm microfilm to hard copy: First .25 Additional .07 (g) Computerline printer output, each 1,000 lines or fraction thereof 1.00 &#xA7; 10.77 Services performed without charge. (a) No fee is charged for time spent in searching for records or reviewing or preparing correspondence related to records subject to this part. (b) No fee is charged for documents furnished in response to: (1) A request from an employee or former employee of the Department for copies of personnel records of the employee; (2) A request from a Member of Congress for official use; (3) A request from a State, territory, U.S. possession, county or municipal government, or an agency thereof; (4) A request from a court that will serve as a substitute for the personal court appearance of an officer or employee of the Department; (5) A request from a foreign government or an agency thereof, or an international organization. (c) Documents are furnished without charge or at a reduced charge, if the Chief Information Officer or the Administrator concerned, as the case may be, determines that waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public interest, because furnishing the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the general public. (d) When records are maintained in computer-readable form rather than human-readable form, one printed copy is made available which has been translated to human-readable form without a charge for translation but in accordance with &#xA7; 10.75(g), regarding computer line-printed charges. [45 FR 8993, Feb. 11, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 33329, June 12, 2008; 75 FR 5244, Feb. 2, 2010] Subpart I-Criminal Penalties &#xA7; 10.81 Improper disclosure. Any officer or employee of the Department who by virtue of his or her employment or official position, has possession of, or access to, agency records which contain individually identifiable information the disclosure of which is prohibited by this part and who knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibited, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, is guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000 in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(1). &#xA7; 10.83 Improper maintenance of records. Any officer or employee of the Department who willfully maintains a system of records without meeting the notice requirements of &#xA7; 10.21(d) of this part is guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000 in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(2). &#xA7; 10.85 Wrongfully obtaining records. Any person who knowingly and willfully requests or obtains any record concerning an individual from the Department under false pretenses is guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000 in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3). Appendix A to Part 10-Exemptions Part I. General Exemptions Those portions of the following systems of records that consist of (a) Information compiled for the purpose of identifying individual criminal offenders and alleged offenders and consisting only of identifying data and notations of arrests, the nature and disposition of criminal charges, sentencing, confinement, release, and parole and probation status; (b) information compiled for the purpose of a criminal investigation, including reports of informants and investigators, and associated with an identifiable individual; or (c) reports identifiable to an individual compiled at any stage of the process of enforcement of the criminal laws from arrest or indictment through release from supervision, are exempt from all parts of 5 U.S.C. 552a except subsections (b) (Conditions of disclosure); (c) (1) and (2) (Accounting of certain disclosures); (e)(4) (A) through (F) (Publication of existence and character of system); (e)(6) (Ensure records are accurate, relevant, timely, and complete before disclosure to person other than an agency and other than pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request), (7) (Restrict recordkeeping on First Amendment rights), (9) (Rules of conduct), (10) (Safeguards), and (11) (Routine use publication); and (i) (Criminal penalties): A. The Investigative Records System maintained by the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, Office of the Inspector General, Office of the Secretary (DOT/OST 100). B. Police Warrant Files and Central Files maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration (DOT/FAA 807). C. The Investigative Records System maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration regarding criminal investigations conducted by offices of Investigations and Security at headquarters and FAA Regional and Center Security Divisions (DOT/FAA 815). D. General Investigations Record System, maintained by the Office of Investigations and Security, Office of the Secretary (DOT/OST 016). These exemptions are justified for the following reasons: 1. From subsection (c)(3), because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosures from records concerning him/her would reveal investigative interest by not only DOT but also the recipient agency, thereby permitting the record subject to take appropriate measures to impede the investigation, as by destroying evidence, intimidating potential witnesses, fleeing the area to avoid the thrust of the investigation, etc. 2. From subsections (d), (e)(4) (G) and (H), (f), and (g), because granting an individual access to investigative records, and granting him/her rights to amend/contest that information, interfere with the overall law enforcement process by revealing a pending sensitive investigation, possibly identify a confidential source, disclose information that would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another individual's personal privacy, reveal a sensitive investigative technique, or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel. 3. From subsection (e)(1), because it is often impossible to determine relevancy or necessity of information in the early stages of an investigation. The value of such information is a question of judgement and timing: what appears relevant and necessary when collected may ultimately be evaluated and viewed as irrelevant and unnecessary to an investigation. In addition, DOT may obtain information concerning the violation of laws other than those within the scope of its jurisdiction. In the interest of effective law enforcement, DOT should retain this information because it may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity and provide leads for other law enforcement agencies. Further, in obtaining evidence during an investigation, information may be provided to DOT that relates to matters incidental to the main purpose of the investigation but that may be pertinent to the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. Such information cannot readily be identified. 4. From subsection (e)(2), because in a law enforcement investigation it is usually counterproductive to collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject of the information. It is not always feasible to rely upon the subject of an investigation as a source for information that may implicate him/her in illegal activities. In addition, collecting information directly from the subject could seriously compromise an investigation by prematurely revealing its nature and scope, or could provide the subject with an opportunity to conceal criminal activities, or intimidate potential sources, in order to avoid apprehension. 5. From subsection (e)(3), because providing such notice to the subject of an investigation, or to other individual sources, could seriously compromise the investigation by prematurely revealing its nature and scope, or could inhibit cooperation, permit the subject to evade apprehension, or cause interference with undercover activities. Part II. Specific Exemptions A. The following systems of records are exempt from subsection (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), (d) (Access to Records), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules) of 5 U.S.C. 552a, to the extent that they contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, in accordance 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2): 1. Investigative Record System (DOT/FAA 815) maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration at the Office of Civil Aviation Security in Washington, DC; the FAA regional Civil Aviation Security Divisions; the Civil Aviation Security Division at the Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; the FAA Civil Aviation Security Staff at the FAA Technical Center in Atlantic City, New Jersey; and the various Federal Records Centers located throughout the country. 2. FHWA Investigations Case File System, maintained by the Office of Program Review and Investigations, Federal Highway Administration (DOT/FHWA 214). 3. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) Enforcement Management Information System, maintained by the Chief Counsel, FMCSA (DOT/FMCSA 002). 4. DOT/NHTSA Investigations of Alleged Misconduct or Conflict of Interest, maintained by the Associate Administrator for Administration, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (DOT/NHTSA 458). 5. Civil Aviation Security System (DOT/FAA 813), maintained by the Office of Civil Aviation Security Policy and Planning, Federal Aviation Administration. 6. Suspected Unapproved Parts (SUP) Program, maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration (DOT/FAA 852). 7. Motor Carrier Management Information System (MCMIS), maintained by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (DOT/FMCSA 001). 8. Suspicious Activity Reporting (SAR) database, maintained by the Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response, Office of the Secretary. 9. Departmental Office of Civil Rights System (DOCRS). 10. Insider Threat Program (DOT/ALL 26). These exemptions are justified for the following reasons: 1. From subsection (c)(3), because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosures from records concerning him/her would reveal investigative interest by not only DOT but also the recipient agency, thereby permitting the record subject to take appropriate measures to impede the investigation, as by destroying evidence, intimidating potential witnesses, fleeing the area to avoid the thrust of the investigation, etc. 2. From subsections (d), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f), because granting an individual access to investigative records, and granting him/her access to investigative records with that information, could interfere with the overall law enforcement process by revealing a pending sensitive investigation, possibly identify a confidential source, disclose information that would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another individual's personal privacy, reveal a sensitive investigative technique, or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel. B. The following systems of records are exempt from subsections (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures) and (d) (Access to Records) of 5 U.S.C. 552a, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2): 1. General Air Transportation Records on Individuals, maintained by various offices in the Federal Aviation Administration (DOT/FAA 847). 2. Investigative Records System, maintained by the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the Office of the Inspector General (DOT/OST 100). 3. General Investigations Record System, maintained by the Office of Investigations and Security, Office of the Secretary (DOT/OST 016). 4. Insider Threat Program (DOT/ALL 26). These exemptions are justified for the following reasons: 1. From subsection (c)(3), because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosures from records concerning him/her would reveal investigative interest by not only DOT but also the recipient agency, thereby permitting the record subject to take appropriate measures to impede the investigation, as by destroying evidence, intimidating potential witnesses, fleeing the area to avoid the thrust of the investigation, etc. 2. From subsection (d), because granting an individual access to investigative records could interfere with the overall law enforcement process by revealing a pending sensitive investigation, possibly identify a confidential source, disclose information that would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another individual's personal privacy, reveal a sensitive investigative technique, or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel. C. The system of records known as the Alaska Railroad Examination of Operating Personnel, maintained by the Alaska Railroad, Federal Railroad Administration (DOT/FRA 100), is exempt from the provisions of subsection (d) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The release of these records would compromise their value as impartial measurement standards for appointment and promotion within the Federal Service. D. Those portions of the following systems of records consisting of investigatory material compiled for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, or access to classified information or used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services, are exempt from sections (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), (d) (Access to Records), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules) of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent that disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who provided information to the Government under an express or, prior to September 27, 1975, an implied promise of confidentiality (5 U.S.C. 552a(k) (5) and (7)): 1. Investigative Records System, maintained by the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the Office of the Inspector General (DOT/OST 100). 2. Investigative Record System, maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration at FAA Regional and Center Air Transportation Security Divisions; the Investigations and Security Division, Aeronautical Center; and Office of Investigations and Security, Headquarters, Washington, D.C. (DOT/FAA 815). 3. Files pursuant to suitability for employment with National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (DOT/NHTSA-457) containing confidential investigatory reports. 4. Personnel Security Records System, maintained by the Office of Investigations and Security, Office of the Secretary (DOT/OST 035). The purpose of these exemptions is to prevent disclosure of the identities of sources who provide information to the government concerning the suitability, eligibility, or qualifications of individuals for Federal civilian employment, contracts, access to classified information, or appointment or promotion in the armed services, and who are expressly or, prior to September 27, 1975, implied promised confidentiality (5 U.S.C. 552a(k) (5) and (7)). E. Those portions of the following systems of records consisting of testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal Service are exempt from subsections (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), (d) (Access to Records), (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 1. Reference Files (DOT/NHTSA 457), maintained by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration personnel offices to determine fitness for employment prior to hiring. The purpose of these exemptions is to preserve the value of these records as impartial measurement standards for appointment and promotion within the Federal service. F. Those portions of the following systems of records which consist of information properly classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) are exempt from sections (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), (d) (Access to Records), (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 1. Investigative Record System maintained by the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the Office of the Inspector General (DOT/OST 100). 2. Personnel Security Records System, maintained by the Office of Investigations and Security, Office of the Secretary (DOT/OST 035). 3. Civil Aviation Security System (DOT/FAA 813), maintained by the Office of Civil Aviation Security, Federal Aviation Administration. 4. General Investigations Record System, maintained by the Office of Investigations and Security, Office of the Secretary (DOT/OST 016). 5. Insider Threat Program (DOT/ALL 26). The purpose of these exemptions is to prevent the disclosure of material authorized to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) and 552a(k)(1). G. Those portions of the following systems of records which consist of information properly classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(1) are exempt from subsections (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures) and (d) (Access to Records) of 5 U.S.C. 552a: 1. Investigative Record System (DOT/FAA 815) maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration at the Office of Civil Aviation Security in Washington, DC; the FAA regional Civil Aviation Security Divisions; the Civil Aviation Security Division at the Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; the FAA Civil Aviation Security Staff at the FAA Technical Center in Atlantic City, New Jersey; and the various Federal Records Centers located throughout the country. 2. Insider Threat Program (DOT/ALL 26). The purpose of these exemptions is to prevent the disclosure of material authorized to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) and 552a(k)(1). H. The following systems of records are exempt from subsection (d) (Access to Records) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, to the extent that they contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2): 1. Aviation Consumer Complaint Appropriation System, maintained by the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings in the Office of the Secretary (DOT/OST 102). This exemption is justified because granting an individual access to investigatory records could interfere with the overall law enforcement process by revealing a sensitive investigative technique, or confidential sources or information. Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting appendix A to part 10, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.