PART 397-TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS; DRIVING AND PARKING RULES Authority: 49 U.S.C. 322; 49 CFR 1.87. Subpart A also issued under 49 U.S.C. 5103, 31136, 31502, and 49 CFR 1.97. Subparts C, D, and E also issued under 49 U.S.C. 5112, 5125. Source: 36 FR 4876, Mar. 13, 1971, unless otherwise noted. Editorial Note: Nomenclature changes to part 397 appear at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 397.1 Application of the rules in this part. (a) The rules in this part apply to each motor carrier engaged in the transportation of hazardous materials by a motor vehicle which must be marked or placarded in accordance with &#xA7; 177.823 of this title and to- (1) Each officer or employee of the motor carrier who performs supervisory duties related to the transportation of hazardous materials; and (2) Each person who operates or who is in charge of a motor vehicle containing hazardous materials. (b) Each person designated in paragraph (a) of this section must know and obey the rules in this part. [36 FR 4876, Mar. 13, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 16067, Aug. 19, 1971; 53 FR 18058, May 19, 1988; 60 FR 38749, July 28, 1995] &#xA7; 397.2 Compliance with Federal motor carrier safety regulations. A motor carrier or other person to whom this part is applicable must comply with the rules in parts 390 through 397, inclusive, of this subchapter when he/she is transporting hazardous materials by a motor vehicle which must be marked or placarded in accordance with &#xA7; 177.823 of this title. [37 FR 18080, Sept. 7, 1972] &#xA7; 397.3 State and local laws, ordinances, and regulations. Every motor vehicle containing hazardous materials must be driven and parked in compliance with the laws, ordinances, and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is being operated, unless they are at variance with specific regulations of the Department of Transportation which are applicable to the operation of that vehicle and which impose a more stringent obligation or restraint. &#xA7; 397.5 Attendance and surveillance of motor vehicles. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a motor vehicle which contains a Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive) material must be attended at all times by its driver or a qualified representative of the motor carrier that operates it. (b) The rules in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle which contains Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 material if all the following conditions exist- (1) The vehicle is located on the property of a motor carrier, on the property of a shipper or consignee of the explosives, in a safe haven, or, in the case of a vehicle containing 50 pounds or less of a Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 material, on a construction or survey site; and (2) The lawful bailee of the explosives is aware of the nature of the explosives the vehicle contains and has been instructed in the procedures which must be followed in emergencies; and (3) The vehicle is within the bailee's unobstructed field of view or is located in a safe haven. (c) A motor vehicle which contains hazardous materials other than Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3, materials, and which is located on a public street or highway, or the shoulder of a public highway, must be attended by its driver. However, the vehicle need not be attended while its driver is performing duties which are incident and necessary to the driver's duties as the operator of the vehicle. (d) For purposes of this section- (1) A motor vehicle is attended when the person in charge of the vehicle is on the vehicle, awake, and not in a sleeper berth, or is within 100 feet of the vehicle and has it within his/her unobstructed field of view. (2) A qualified representative of a motor carrier is a person who- (i) Has been designated by the carrier to attend the vehicle; (ii) Is aware of the nature of the hazardous materials contained in the vehicle he/she attends; (iii) Has been instructed in the procedures he/she must follow in emergencies; and (iv) Is authorized to move the vehicle and has the means and ability to do so. (3) A safe haven is an area specifically approved in writing by local, State, or Federal governmental authorities for the parking of unattended vehicles containing Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials. (e) The rules in this section do not relieve the driver from any obligation imposed by law relating to the placing of warning devices when a motor vehicle is stopped on a public street or highway. [59 FR 63925, Dec. 12, 1994, as amended at 77 FR 59828, Oct. 1, 2012] &#xA7; 397.7 Parking. (a) A motor vehicle which contains Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials must not be parked under any of the following circumstances- (1) On or within 5 feet of the traveled portion of a public street or highway; (2) On private property (including premises of fueling or eating facility) without the knowledge and consent of the person who is in charge of the property and who is aware of the nature of the hazardous materials the vehicle contains; or (3) Within 300 feet of a bridge, tunnel, dwelling, or place where people work, congregate, or assemble, except for brief periods when the necessities of operation require the vehicle to be parked and make it impracticable to park the vehicle in any other place. (b) A motor vehicle which contains hazardous materials other than Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials must not be parked on or within five feet of the traveled portion of public street or highway except for brief periods when the necessities of operation require the vehicle to be parked and make it impracticable to park the vehicle in any other place. [59 FR 63925, Dec. 12, 1994] &#xA7; 397.9 [Reserved] &#xA7; 397.11 Fires. (a) A motor vehicle containing hazardous materials must not be operated near an open fire unless its driver has first taken precautions to ascertain that the vehicle can safely pass the fire without stopping. (b) A motor vehicle containing hazardous materials must not be parked within 300 feet of an open fire. &#xA7; 397.13 Smoking. No person may smoke or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar, or pipe on or within 25 feet of- (a) A motor vehicle which contains Class 1 materials, Class 5 materials, or flammable materials classified as Division 2.1, Class 3, Divisions 4.1 and 4.2; or (b) An empty tank motor vehicle which has been used to transport Class 3, flammable materials, or Division 2.1 flammable gases, which when so used, was required to be marked or placarded in accordance with the rules in &#xA7; 177.823 of this title. [59 FR 63925, Dec. 12, 1994] &#xA7; 397.15 Fueling. When a motor vehicle which contains hazardous materials is being fueled- (a) Its engine must not be operating; and (b) A person must be in control of the fueling process at the point where the fuel tank is filled. &#xA7; 397.17 Tires. (a) A driver must examine each tire on a motor vehicle at the beginning of each trip and each time the vehicle is parked. (b) If, as the result of an examination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or otherwise, a tire if found to be flat, leaking, or improperly inflated, the driver must cause the tire to be repaired, replaced, or properly inflated before the vehicle is driven. However, the vehicle may be driven to the nearest safe place to perform the required repair, replacement, or inflation. (c) If, as the result of an examination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or otherwise, a tire is found to be overheated, the driver shall immediately cause the overheated tire to be removed and placed at a safe distance from the vehicle. The driver shall not operate the vehicle until the cause of the overheating is corrected. (d) Compliance with the rules in this section does not relieve a driver from the duty to comply with the rules in &#xA7;&#xA7; 397.5 and 397.7. &#xA7; 397.19 Instructions and documents. (a) A motor carrier that transports Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive) materials must furnish the driver of each motor vehicle in which the explosives are transported with the following documents: (1) A copy of the rules in this part; (2) [Reserved] (3) A document containing instructions on procedures to be followed in the event of accident or delay. The documents must include the names and telephone numbers of persons (including representatives of carriers or shippers) to be contacted, the nature of the explosives being transported, and the precautions to be taken in emergencies such as fires, accidents, or leakages. (b) A driver who receives documents in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must sign a receipt for them. The motor carrier shall maintain the receipt for a period of one year from the date of signature. (c) A driver of a motor vehicle which contains Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials must be in possession of, be familiar with, and be in compliance with (1) The documents specified in paragraph (a) of this section; (2) The documents specified in &#xA7; 177.817 of this title; and (3) The written route plan specified in &#xA7; 397.67. [59 FR 63925, Dec. 12, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 33280, June 18, 1998; 77 FR 59828, Oct. 1, 2012] Subpart B [Reserved] Subpart C-Routing of Non-Radioactive Hazardous Materials Source: 59 FR 51830, Oct. 12, 1994, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 397.61 Purpose and scope. This subpart contains routing requirements and procedures that States and Indian tribes are required to follow if they establish, maintain, or enforce routing designations over which a non-radioactive hazardous material (NRHM) in a quantity which requires placarding may or may not be transported by a motor vehicle. It also provides regulations for motor carriers transporting placarded or marked NRHM and procedures for dispute resolutions regarding NRHM routing designations. &#xA7; 397.63 Applicability. The provisions of this subpart apply to any State or Indian tribe that establishes, maintains, or enforces any routing designations over which NRHM may or may not be transported by motor vehicle. They also apply to any motor carrier that transports or causes to be transported placarded or marked NRHM in commerce. &#xA7; 397.65 Definitions. For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply: Administrator. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator, who is the chief executive of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an agency within the United States Department of Transportation, or his/her designate. Commerce. Any trade, traffic, or transportation in the United States which: (1) Is between a place under the jurisdiction of a State or Indian tribe and any place outside of such jurisdiction; or (2) Is solely within a place under the jurisdiction of a State or Indian tribe but which affects trade, traffic, or transportation described in subparagraph (a). FMCSA. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an agency within the Department of Transportation. Hazardous material. A substance or material, including a hazardous substance, which has been determined by the Secretary of Transportation to be capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety, or property when transported in commerce, and which has been so designated. Indian tribe. Has the same meaning as contained in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Act, 25 U.S.C. 450b. Motor carrier. A for-hire motor carrier or a private motor carrier of property. The term includes a motor carrier's agents, officers and representatives as well as employees responsible for hiring, supervising, training, assigning, or dispatching of drivers. Motor vehicle. Any vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used upon the highways in the transportation of passengers or property, or any combination thereof. NRHM. A non-radioactive hazardous material transported by motor vehicle in types and quantities which require placarding, pursuant to Table 1 or 2 of 49 CFR 172.504. Political subdivision. A municipality, public agency or other instrumentality of one or more States, or a public corporation, board, or commission established under the laws of one or more States. Radioactive material. As defined in 49 CFR 173.403, radioactive material means any material containing radionuclides where both the activity concentration and the total activity in the consignment exceed the values of the table in 49 CFR 173.436 or values derived according to the instructions in 49 CFR 173.433. Routing agency. The State highway agency or other State agency designated by the Governor of that State, or an agency designated by an Indian tribe, to supervise, coordinate, and approve the NRHM routing designations for that State or Indian tribe. Routing designations. Any regulation, limitation, restriction, curfew, time of travel restriction, lane restriction, routing ban, port-of-entry designation, or route weight restriction, applicable to the highway transportation of NRHM over a specific highway route or portion of a route. Secretary. The Secretary of Transportation. State. A State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa or Guam. [59 FR 51830, Oct. 12, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 58485, Sept. 24, 2013] Editorial Note: At 89 FR 90624, Nov. 18, 2024, &#xA7; 397.65 was amended; however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to an inaccurate amendatory instruction. &#xA7; 397.67 Motor carrier responsibility for routing. (a) A motor carrier transporting NRHM shall comply with NRHM routing designations of a State or Indian tribe pursuant to this subpart. (b) A motor carrier carrying hazardous materials required to be placarded or marked in accordance with 49 CFR 177.823 and not subject to NRHM routing designations pursuant to this subpart, shall operate the vehicle over routes which do not go through or near heavily populated areas, places where crowds are assembled, tunnels, narrow streets, or alleys, except where the motor carrier determines that: (1) There is no practicable alternative; (2) A reasonable deviation is necessary to reach terminals, points of loading and unloading, facilities for food, fuel, repairs, rest, or a safe haven; or (3) A reasonable deviation is required by emergency conditions, such as a detour that has been established by a highway authority, or a situation exists where a law enforcement official requires the driver to take an alternative route. (c) Operating convenience is not a basis for determining whether it is practicable to operate a motor vehicle in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Before a motor carrier requires or permits a motor vehicle containing explosives in Class 1, Divisions 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3, as defined in 49 CFR 173.50 and 173.53 respectively, to be operated, the carrier or its agent shall prepare a written route plan that complies with this section and shall furnish a copy to the driver. However, the driver may prepare the written plan as agent for the motor carrier when the trip begins at a location other than the carrier's terminal. [59 FR 51830, Oct. 12, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 58485, Sept. 24, 2013] &#xA7; 397.69 Highway routing designations; preemption. (a) Any State or Indian tribe that establishes or modifies a highway routing designation over which NRHM may or may not be transported on or after November 14, 1994, and maintains or enforces such designation, shall comply with the highway routing standards set forth in &#xA7; 397.71 of this subpart. For purposes of this subpart, any highway routing designation affecting the highway transportation of NRHM, made by a political subdivision of a State is considered as one made by that State, and all requirements of this subpart apply. (b) Except as provided in &#xA7;&#xA7; 397.75 and 397.219, an NRHM route designation made in violation of paragraph (a) of this section is preempted pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5125(c). (c) A highway routing designation established by a State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe before November 14, 1994 is subject to preemption in accordance with the preemption standards in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of &#xA7; 397.203. (d) A State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe may petition for a waiver of preemption in accordance with &#xA7; 397.213 of this part. [59 FR 51830, Oct. 12, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 58485, Sept. 24, 2013; 79 FR 59457, Oct. 2, 2014] &#xA7; 397.71 Federal standards. (a) A State or Indian tribe shall comply with the Federal standards under paragraph (b) of this section when establishing, maintaining or enforcing specific NRHM routing designations over which NRHM may or may not be transported. (b) The Federal standards are as follows: (1) Enhancement of public safety. The State or Indian tribe shall make a finding, supported by the record to be developed in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (b)(3)(iv) of this section, that any NRHM routing designation enhances public safety in the areas subject to its jurisdiction and in other areas which are directly affected by such highway routing designation. In making such a finding, the State or Indian tribe shall consider: (i) The factors listed in paragraph (b)(9) of this section; and (ii) The DOT &#x201C;Guidelines for Applying Criteria to Designate Routes for Transporting Hazardous Materials,&#x201D; DOT/RSPA/OHMT-89-02, July 1989 1 or its most current version; or an equivalent routing analysis which adequately considers overall risk to the public. 1 This document may be obtained from Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance (MC-SE), 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. (2) Public participation. Prior to the establishment of any NRHM routing designation, the State or Indian tribe shall undertake the following actions to ensure participation by the public in the routing process: (i) The State or Indian tribe shall provide the public with notice of any proposed NRHM routing designation and a 30-day period in which to comment. At any time during this period or following review of the comments received, the State or Indian tribe shall decide whether to hold a public hearing on the proposed NRHM route designation. The public shall be given 30 days prior notice of the public hearing which shall be conducted as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. Notice for both the comment period and the public hearing, if one is held, shall be given by publication in at least two newspapers of general circulation in the affected area or areas and shall contain a complete description of the proposed routing designation, together with the date, time, and location of any public hearings. Notice for both the comment period and any public hearing may also be published in the official register of the State. (ii) If it is determined that a public hearing is necessary, the State or Indian tribe shall hold at least one public hearing on the record during which the public will be afforded the opportunity to present its views and any information or data related to the proposed NRHM routing designation. The State shall make available to the public, upon payment of prescribed costs, copies of the transcript of the hearing, which shall include all exhibits and documents presented during the hearing or submitted for the record. (3) Consultation with others. Prior to the establishment of any NRHM routing designation, the State or Indian tribe shall provide notice to, and consult with, officials of affected political subdivisions, States and Indian tribes, and any other affected parties. Such actions shall include the following: (i) At least 60 days prior to establishing a routing designation, the State or Indian tribe shall provide notice, in writing, of the proposed routing designation to officials responsible for highway routing in all other affected States or Indian tribes. A copy of this notice may also be sent to all affected political subdivisions. This notice shall request approval, in writing, by those States or Indian tribes, of the proposed routing designations. If no response is received within 60 days from the day of receipt of the notification of the proposed routing designation, the routing designation shall be considered approved by the affected State or Indian tribe. (ii) The manner in which consultation under this paragraph is conducted is left to the discretion of the State or Indian tribe. (iii) The State or Indian tribe shall attempt to resolve any concern or disagreement expressed by any consulted official related to the proposed routing designation. (iv) The State or Indian tribe shall keep a record of the names and addresses of the officials notified pursuant to this section and of any consultation or meeting conducted with these officials or their representatives. Such record shall describe any concern or disagreement expressed by the officials and any action undertaken to resolve such disagreement or address any concern. (4) Through routing. In establishing any NRHM routing designation, the State or Indian tribe shall ensure through highway routing for the transportation of NRHM between adjacent areas. The term &#x201C;through highway routing&#x201D; as used in this paragraph means that the routing designation must ensure continuity of movement so as to not impede or unnecessarily delay the transportation of NRHM. The State or Indian tribe shall utilize the procedures established in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section in meeting these requirements. In addition, the State or Indian tribe shall make a finding, supported by a risk analysis conducted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, that the routing designation enhances public safety. If the risk analysis shows- (i) That the current routing presents at least 50 percent more risk to the public than the deviation under the proposed routing designation, then the proposed routing designation may go into effect. (ii) That the current routing presents a greater risk but less than 50 percent more risk to the public than the deviation under the proposed routing restriction, then the proposed routing restriction made by a State or Indian tribe shall only go into effect if it does not force a deviation of more than 25 miles or result in an increase of more than 25 percent of that part of a trip affected by the deviation, whichever is shorter, from the most direct route through a jurisdiction as compared to the intended deviation. (iii) That the current route has the same or less risk to the public than the deviation resulting from the proposed routing designation, then the routing designation shall not be allowed. (5) Agreement of other States; burden on commerce. Any NRHM routing designation which affects another State or Indian tribe shall be established, maintained, or enforced only if: (i) It does not unreasonably burden commerce, and (ii) It is agreed to by the affected State or Indian tribe within 60 days of receipt of the notice sent pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, or it is approved by the Administrator pursuant to &#xA7; 397.75. (6) Timeliness. The establishment of an NRHM routing designation by any State or Indian tribe shall be completed within 18 months of the notice given in either paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, whichever occurs first. (7) Reasonable routes to terminals and other facilities. In establishing or providing for reasonable access to and from designated routes, the State or Indian tribe shall use the shortest practicable route considering the factors listed in paragraph (b)(9) of this section. In establishing any NRHM routing designation, the State or Indian tribe shall provide reasonable access for motor vehicles transporting NRHM to reach: (i) Terminals, (ii) Points of loading, unloading, pickup and delivery, and (iii) Facilities for food, fuel, repairs, rest, and safe havens. (8) Responsibility for local compliance. The States shall be responsible for ensuring that all of their political subdivisions comply with the provisions of this subpart. The States shall be responsible for resolving all disputes between such political subdivisions within their jurisdictions. If a State or any political subdivision thereof, or an Indian tribe chooses to establish, maintain, or enforce any NRHM routing designation, the Governor, or Indian tribe, shall designate a routing agency for the State or Indian tribe, respectively. The routing agency shall ensure that all NRHM routing designations within its jurisdiction comply with the Federal standards in this section. The State or Indian tribe shall comply with the public information and reporting requirements contained in &#xA7; 397.73. (9) Factors to consider. In establishing any NRHM routing designation, the State or Indian tribe shall consider the following factors: (i) Population density. The population potentially exposed to an NRHM release shall be estimated from the density of the residents, employees, motorists, and other persons in the area, using United States census tract maps or other reasonable means for determining the population within a potential impact zone along a designated highway route. The impact zone is the potential range of effects in the event of a release. Special populations such as schools, hospitals, prisons, and senior citizen homes shall, among other things, be considered when determining the potential risk to the populations along a highway routing. Consideration shall be given to the amount of time during which an area will experience a heavy population density. (ii) Type of highway. The characteristics of each alternative NRHM highway routing designation shall be compared. Vehicle weight and size limits, underpass and bridge clearances, roadway geometrics, number of lanes, degree of access control, and median and shoulder structures are examples of characteristics which a State or Indian tribe shall consider. (iii) Types and quantities of NRHM. An examination shall be made of the type and quantity of NRHM normally transported along highway routes which are included in a proposed NRHM routing designation, and consideration shall be given to the relative impact zone and risks of each type and quantity. (iv) Emergency response capabilities. In consultation with the proper fire, law enforcement, and highway safety agencies, consideration shall be given to the emergency response capabilities which may be needed as a result of an NRHM routing designation. The analysis of the emergency response capabilities shall be based upon the proximity of the emergency response facilities and their capabilities to contain and suppress NRHM releases within the impact zones. (v) Results of consultation with affected persons. Consideration shall be given to the comments and concerns of all affected persons and entities provided during public hearings and consultations conducted in accordance with this section. (vi) Exposure and other risk factors. States and Indian tribes shall define the exposure and risk factors associated with any NRHM routing designations. The distance to sensitive areas shall be considered. Sensitive areas include, but are not limited to, homes and commercial buildings; special populations in hospitals, schools, handicapped facilities, prisons and stadiums; water sources such as streams and lakes; and natural areas such as parks, wetlands, and wildlife reserves. (vii) Terrain considerations. Topography along and adjacent to the proposed NRHM routing designation that may affect the potential severity of an accident, the dispersion of the NRHM upon release and the control and clean up of NRHM if released shall be considered. (viii) Continuity of routes. Adjacent jurisdictions shall be consulted to ensure routing continuity for NRHM across common borders. Deviations from the most direct route shall be minimized. (ix) Alternative routes. Consideration shall be given to the alternative routes to, or resulting from, any NRHM route designation. Alternative routes shall be examined, reviewed, or evaluated to the extent necessary to demonstrate that the most probable alternative routing resulting from a routing designation is safer than the current routing. (x) Effects on commerce. Any NRHM routing designation made in accordance with this subpart shall not create an unreasonable burden upon interstate or intrastate commerce. (xi) Delays in transportation. No NRHM routing designations may create unnecessary delays in the transportation of NRHM. (xii) Climatic conditions. Weather conditions unique to a highway route such as snow, wind, ice, fog, or other climatic conditions that could affect the safety of a route, the dispersion of the NRHM upon release, or increase the difficulty of controlling it and cleaning it up shall be given appropriate consideration. (xiii) Congestion and accident history. Traffic conditions unique to a highway routing such as: traffic congestion; accident experience with motor vehicles, traffic considerations that could affect the potential for an accident, exposure of the public to any release, ability to perform emergency response operations, or the temporary closing of a highway for cleaning up any release shall be given appropriate consideration. [36 FR 4876, Mar. 13, 1971, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007; 78 FR 58485, Sept. 24, 2013; 87 FR 59037, Sept. 29, 2022] &#xA7; 397.73 Public information and reporting requirements. (a) Public information. Information on NRHM routing designations must be made available by the States and Indian tribes to the public in the form of maps, lists, road signs or some combination thereof. If road signs are used, those signs and their placements must comply with the provisions of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, published by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), particularly the Hazardous Cargo signs identified as R14-2 and R14-3 shown in Section 2B-62 of that Manual. This publication may be accessed free of charge on the Internet at http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/. (b) Reporting and publishing requirements. (1) Each State or Indian tribe, through its routing agency, shall provide information identifying all NRHM routing designations that exist within its jurisdiction: (i) Electronically, by email to HMRouting@dot.gov ; or (ii) By mail to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance (MC-SE), 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590-0001. (2) States and Indian tribes shall also submit to FMCSA the current name of the State or Indian tribal agency responsible for NHRM highway routing designations. The State or Indian tribe shall include descriptions of these routing designations, along with the dates they were established. Information on any subsequent changes or new NRHM routing designations shall be furnished within 60 days after establishment to the FMCSA. (3)(i) FMCSA will consolidate information on the NRHM routing designations, make it available on its website, https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/regulations/hazardous-materials/national-hazardous-materials-route-registry, and publish it annually in whole or as updates in the Federal Register . (ii) Each State or Indian tribe may also publish this information in its official register of State or tribal regulations. (c) A State or Tribally-designated route is effective only after it is published in the National Hazardous Materials Route Registry on FMCSA's website at https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/regulations/hazardous-materials/national-hazardous-materials-route-registry . [79 FR 59457, Oct. 2, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 68358, Oct. 4, 2016; 83 FR 22881, May 17, 2018; 83 FR 48726, Sept. 27, 2018; 87 FR 59037, Sept. 29, 2022] &#xA7; 397.75 Dispute resolution. (a) Petition. One or more States or Indian tribes may petition the Administrator to resolve a dispute relating to an agreement on a proposed NRHM routing designation. In resolving a dispute under these provisions, the Administrator will provide the greatest level of safety possible without unreasonably burdening commerce, and ensure compliance with the Federal standards established at &#xA7; 397.71 of this subpart. (b) Filing. Each petition for dispute resolution filed under this section must: (1) Be submitted to the Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Attention: Office of the Chief Counsel (MC-CC). (2) Identify the State or Indian tribe filing the petition and any other State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe whose NRHM routing designation is the subject of the dispute. (3) Contain a certification that the petitioner has complied with the notification requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, and include a list of the names and addresses of each State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe official who was notified of the filing of the petition. (4) Clearly set forth the dispute for which resolution is sought, including a complete description of any disputed NRHM routing designation and an explanation of how the disputed routing designation affects the petitioner or how it impedes through highway routing. If the routing designation being disputed results in alternative routing, then a comparative risk analysis for the designated route and the resulting alternative routing shall be provided. (5) Describe any actions taken by the State or Indian tribe to resolve the dispute. (6) Explain the reasons why the petitioner believes that the Administrator should intervene in resolving the dispute. (7) Describe any proposed actions that the Administrator should take to resolve the dispute and how these actions would provide the greatest level of highway safety without unreasonably burdening commerce and would ensure compliance with the Federal standards established in this subpart. (c) Notice. (1) Any State or Indian tribe that files a petition for dispute resolution under this subpart shall mail a copy of the petition to any affected State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe, accompanied by a statement that the State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe may submit comments regarding the petition to the Administrator within 45 days. (2) By serving notice on any other State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe determined by the Administrator to be possibly affected by the issues in dispute or the resolution sought, or by publication in the Federal Register, the Administrator may afford those persons an opportunity to file written comments on the petition. (3) Any affected State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe submitting written comments to the Administrator with respect to a petition filed under this section shall send a copy of the comments to the petitioner and certify to the Administrator as to having complied with this requirement. The Administrator may notify other persons participating in the proceeding of the comments and provide an opportunity for those other persons to respond. (d) Court actions. After a petition for dispute resolution is filed in accordance with this section, no court action may be brought with respect to the subject matter of such dispute until a final decision has been issued by the Administrator or until the last day of the one-year period beginning on the day the Administrator receives the petition, whichever occurs first. (e) Hearings; alternative dispute resolution. Upon receipt of a petition filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator may schedule a hearing to attempt to resolve the dispute and, if a hearing is scheduled, will notify all parties to the dispute of the date, time, and place of the hearing. During the hearing the parties may offer any information pertinent to the resolution of the dispute. If an agreement is reached, it may be stipulated by the parties, in writing, and, if the Administrator agrees, made part of the decision in paragraph (f) of this section. If no agreement is reached, the Administrator may take the matter under consideration and announce his or her decision in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the parties from settling the dispute or seeking other methods of alternative dispute resolution prior to the final decision by the Administrator. (f) Decision. The Administrator will issue a decision based on the petition, the written comments submitted by the parties, the record of the hearing, and any other information in the record. The decision will include a written statement setting forth the relevant facts and the legal basis for the decision. (g) Record. The Administrator will serve a copy of the decision upon the petitioner and any other party who participated in the proceedings. A copy of each decision will be placed on file in the public docket. The Administrator may publish the decision or notice of the decision in the Federal Register. [36 FR 4876, Mar. 13, 1971, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007] &#xA7; 397.77 Judicial review of dispute decision. Any State or Indian tribe adversely affected by the Administrator's decision under &#xA7; 397.75 of this subpart may seek review by the appropriate district court of the United States under such proceeding only by filing a petition with such court within 90 days after such decision becomes final. Subpart D-Routing of Class 7 (Radioactive) Materials &#xA7; 397.101 Requirements for motor carriers and drivers. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section or in circumstances when there is only one practicable highway route available, considering operating necessity and safety, a carrier or any person operating a motor vehicle that contains a Class 7 (radioactive) material, as defined in 49 CFR 172.403, for which placarding is required under 49 CFR part 172 shall: (1) Ensure that the motor vehicle is operated on routes that minimize radiological risk; (2) Consider available information on accident rates, transit time, population density and activities, and the time of day and the day of week during which transportation will occur to determine the level of radiological risk; and (3) Tell the driver which route to take and that the motor vehicle contains Class 7 (radioactive) materials. (b) Except as otherwise permitted in this paragraph and in paragraph (f) of this section, a carrier or any person operating a motor vehicle containing a highway route controlled quantity of Class 7 (radioactive) materials, as defined in 49 CFR 173.403, shall operate the motor vehicle only over preferred routes. (1) For purposes of this subpart, a preferred route is an Interstate System highway for which an alternative route is not designated by a State routing agency; a State-designated route selected by a State routing agency pursuant to &#xA7; 397.103; or both of the above. (2) The motor carrier or the person operating a motor vehicle containing a highway route controlled quantity of Class 7 (radioactive) materials, as defined in 49 CFR 173.403, shall select routes to reduce time in transit over the preferred route segment of the trip. An Interstate System bypass or Interstate System beltway around a city, when available, shall be used in place of a preferred route through a city, unless a State routing agency has designated an alternative route. (c) A motor vehicle may be operated over a route, other than a preferred route, only under the following conditions: (1) The deviation from the preferred route is necessary to pick up or deliver a highway route controlled quantity of Class 7 (radioactive) materials, to make necessary rest, fuel or motor vehicle repair stops, or because emergency conditions make continued use of the preferred route unsafe or impossible; (2) For pickup and delivery not over preferred routes, the route selected must be the shortest-distance route from the pickup location to the nearest preferred route entry location, and the shortest-distance route to the delivery location from the nearest preferred route exit location. Deviation from the shortest-distance pickup or delivery route is authorized if such deviation: (i) Is based upon the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section to minimize the radiological risk; and (ii) Does not exceed the shortest-distance pickup or delivery route by more than 25 miles and does not exceed 5 times the length of the shortest-distance pickup or delivery route. (iii) Deviations from preferred routes, or pickup or delivery routes other than preferred routes, which are necessary for rest, fuel, or motor vehicle repair stops or because of emergency conditions, shall be made in accordance with the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section to minimize radiological risk, unless due to emergency conditions, time does not permit use of those criteria. (d) A carrier (or a designated agent) who operates a motor vehicle which contains a package of highway route controlled quantity of Class 7 (radioactive) materials, as defined in 49 CFR 173.403, shall prepare a written route plan and supply a copy before departure to the motor vehicle driver and a copy to the shipper (before departure for exclusive use shipments, as defined in 49 CFR 173.403, or within fifteen working days following departure for all other shipments). Any variation between the route plan and routes actually used, and the reason for it, shall be reported in an amendment to the route plan delivered to the shipper as soon as practicable but within 30 days following the deviation. The route plan shall contain: (1) A statement of the origin and destination points, a route selected in compliance with this section, all planned stops, and estimated departure and arrival times; and (2) Telephone numbers which will access emergency assistance in each State to be entered. (e) No person may transport a package of highway route controlled quantity of Class 7 (radioactive) materials on a public highway unless: (1) The driver has received within the two preceding years, written training on: (i) Requirements in 49 CFR parts 172, 173, and 177 pertaining to the Class 7 (radioactive) materials transported; (ii) The properties and hazards of the Class 7 (radioactive) materials being transported; and (iii) Procedures to be followed in case of an accident or other emergency. (2) The driver has in his or her immediate possession a certificate of training as evidence of training required by this section, and a copy is placed in his or her qualification file (see &#xA7; 391.51 of this subchapter), showing: (i) The driver's name and operator's license number; (ii) The dates training was provided; (iii) The name and address of the person providing the training; (iv) That the driver has been trained in the hazards and characteristics of highway route controlled quantity of Class 7 (radioactive) materials; and (v) A statement by the person providing the training that information on the certificate is accurate. (3) The driver has in his or her immediate possession the route plan required by paragraph (d) of this section and operates the motor vehicle in accordance with the route plan. (f) A person may transport irradiated reactor fuel only in compliance with a plan if required under 49 CFR 173.22(c) that will ensure the physical security of the material. Variation for security purposes from the requirements of this section is permitted so far as necessary to meet the requirements imposed under such a plan, or otherwise imposed by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR part 73. [57 FR 44131, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007; 77 FR 59828, Oct. 1, 2012; 78 FR 58485, Sept. 24, 2013; 81 FR 68359, Oct. 4, 2016] &#xA7; 397.103 Requirements for State routing designations. (a) The State routing agency, as defined in &#xA7; 397.201(c), shall select routes to minimize radiological risk using &#x201C;Guidelines for Selecting Preferred Highway Routes for Highway Route Controlled Quantity Shipments of Radioactive Materials,&#x201D; or an equivalent routing analysis which adequately considers overall risk to the public. Designations must be preceded by substantive consultation with affected local jurisdictions and with any other affected States to ensure consideration of all impacts and continuity of designated routes. (b) State routing agencies may designate preferred routes as an alternative to, or in addition to, one or more Interstate System highways, including interstate system bypasses, or Interstate System beltways. (c) A State-designated route is effective when- (1) The State gives written notice to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration: (i) By email to HMRouting@dot.gov; or (ii) By certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance (MC-SE), 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Attention: National Hazardous Materials Route Registry. (2) Receipt thereof is acknowledged in writing by the FMCSA. (3) The route is published in the National Hazardous Materials Route Registry on FMCSA's website at https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/regulations/hazardous-materials/national-hazardous-materials-route-registry . (d) A list of State-designated preferred routes and a copy of the &#x201C;Guidelines for Selecting Preferred Highway Routes for Highway Route Controlled Quantity Shipments of Radioactive Materials&#x201D; are available upon request to Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance (MC-EC), 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590-0001, or by email to HMRouting@dot.gov. [57 FR 44131, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007; 79 FR 59458, Oct. 2, 2014; 81 FR 68359, Oct. 4, 2016; 83 FR 22881, May 17, 2018; 83 FR 48726, Sept. 27, 2018; 87 FR 59037, Sept. 29, 2022] Subpart E-Preemption Procedures Source: 57 FR 44132, Sept. 24, 1992, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 397.201 Purpose and scope of the procedures. (a) This subpart prescribes procedures by which: (1) Any person, including a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe, directly affected by any highway routing designation for hazardous materials may apply to the Administrator for a determination as to whether that highway routing designation is preempted under 49 U.S.C. 5125, or &#xA7; 397.69 or &#xA7; 397.203 of this part; and (2) A State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe may apply to the Administrator for a waiver of preemption with respect to any highway routing designation that the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe acknowledges to be preempted by 49 U.S.C. 5125, or &#xA7; 397.69 or &#xA7; 397.203 of this part, or that has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be so preempted. (b) Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator, an application for a preemption determination which includes an application for a waiver of preemption will be treated and processed solely as an application for a preemption determination. (c) For purposes of this part: Act means 49 U.S.C. 5101 et seq., formerly known as the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. Administrator means the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator, who is the chief executive of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an agency of the United States Department of Transportation, or his/her designate. Hazardous material means a substance or material, including a hazardous substance, which has been determined by the Secretary of Transportation to be capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety, or property, when transported in commerce, and which has been so designated. Indian tribe has the same meaning as contained in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Act, 25 U.S.C. 450b. Person means an individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association, joint-stock association, including any trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar representative thereof, or government, Indian tribe, or agency or instrumentality of any government or Indian tribe when it offers hazardous materials for transportation in commerce or transports hazardous materials in furtherance of a commercial enterprise, but such term does not include the United States Postal Service. Political subdivision includes a municipality; a public agency or other instrumentality of one or more States, or a public corporation, board, or commission established under the laws of one or more States. Routing agency means the State highway agency or other State agency designated by the Governor of a State, or an agency designated by an Indian tribe, to supervise, coordinate, and approve the highway routing designations for that State or Indian tribe. Any highway routing designation made by a political subdivision of a State shall be considered a designation made by that State. Routing designation includes any regulation, limitation, restriction, curfew, time of travel restriction, lane restriction, routing ban, port-of-entry designation, or route weight restriction applicable to the highway transportation of hazardous materials over a specific highway route or portion of a route. State means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or any other territory or possession of the United States designated by the Secretary. [57 FR 44132, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 51834, Oct. 12, 1994; 78 FR 58486, Sept. 24, 2013] &#xA7; 397.203 Standards for determining preemption. (a) Any highway routing designation established, maintained, or enforced by a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe is preempted if- (1) Compliance with both the highway routing designation and any requirement under the Act or of a regulation issued under the Act is not possible; (2) The highway routing designation as applied or enforced creates an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the Act or the regulations issued under the Act; or (3) The highway routing designation is preempted pursuant to &#xA7; 397.69(b) of this part. (b) [Reserved] [57 FR 44132, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 51834, Oct. 12, 1994] &#xA7; 397.205 Preemption application. (a) Any person, including a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe directly affected by any highway routing designation of another State, political subdivision, or Indian tribe, may apply to the Administrator for a determination of whether that highway routing designation is preempted by the Act or &#xA7; 397.203 of this subpart. The Administrator shall publish notice of the application in the Federal Register. (b) Each application filed under this section for a determination must: (1) Be submitted to the Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Attention: Office of the Chief Counsel, Enforcement and Litigation Division (MC-CCE); (2) Set forth a detailed description of the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe for which the determination is sought; (3) If applicable, specify the provisions of the Act or the regulations issued under the Act under which the applicant seeks preemption of the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe; (4) Explain why the applicant believes the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe should or should not be preempted under the standards of &#xA7; 397.203; and (5) State how the applicant is affected by the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe. (c) The filing of an application for a determination under this section does not constitute grounds for noncompliance with any requirement of the Act or any regulation issued under the Act. (d) Once the Administrator has published notice in the Federal Register of an application received under paragraph (a) of this section, no applicant for such determination may seek relief with respect to the same or substantially the same issue in any court until final action has been taken on the application or until 180 days after filing of the application, whichever occurs first. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any person, including a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe, directly affected by any highway routing designation from seeking a determination of preemption in any court of competent jurisdiction in lieu of applying to the Administrator under paragraph (a) of this section. [57 FR 44132, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007] &#xA7; 397.207 Preemption notice. (a) If the applicant is other than a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe, the applicant shall mail a copy of the application to the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe concerned, accompanied by a statement that comments may be submitted regarding the application to the Administrator within 45 days. The application filed with the Administrator must include a certification that the applicant has complied with this paragraph and must include the names and addresses of each official to whom a copy of the application was sent. (b) The Administrator may afford interested persons an opportunity to file written comments on the application by serving notice on any persons readily identifiable by the Administrator as persons who will be affected by the ruling sought or by publication in the Federal Register. (c) Each person submitting written comments to the Administrator with respect to an application filed under this section shall send a copy of the comments to the applicant and certify to the Administrator that he or she has complied with this requirement. The Administrator may notify other persons participating in the proceeding of the comments and provide an opportunity for those other persons to respond. &#xA7; 397.209 Preemption processing. (a) The Administrator may initiate an investigation of any statement in an application and utilize in his or her evaluation any relevant facts obtained by that investigation. The Administrator may solicit and accept submissions from third persons relevant to an application and will provide the applicant an opportunity to respond to all third person submissions. In evaluating an application, the Administrator may consider any other source of information. The Administrator may convene a hearing or conference, if a hearing or conference will advance the evaluation of the application. (b) The Administrator may dismiss the application without prejudice if: (1) he or she determines that there is insufficient information upon which to base a determination; or (2) he or she requests additional information from the applicant and it is not submitted. &#xA7; 397.211 Preemption determination. (a) Upon consideration of the application and other relevant information received, the Administrator issues a determination. (b) Notwithstanding that an application for a determination has not been filed under &#xA7; 397.205, the Administrator, on his or her own initiative, may issue a determination as to whether a particular highway routing designation of a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe is preempted under the Act or the regulations issued under the Act. (c) The determination includes a written statement setting forth the relevant facts and the legal basis for the determination, and provides that any person aggrieved thereby may file a petition for reconsideration within 20 days in accordance with &#xA7; 397.223. (d) Unless the determination is issued pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator serves a copy of the determination upon the applicant. In all preemption determinations, the Administrator serves a copy of the determination upon any other person who participated in the proceeding or who is readily identifiable by the Administrator as affected by the determination. A copy of each determination is placed on file in the public docket. The Administrator may publish the determination or notice of the determination in the Federal Register. (e) If no petition for reconsideration is filed within 20 days in accordance with &#xA7; 397.223, a determination issued under this section constitutes the final agency decision as to whether a particular highway routing designation of a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe is preempted under the Act or regulations issued thereunder. The fact that a determination has not been issued under this section with respect to a particular highway routing designation of a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe carries no implication as to whether the requirement is preempted under the Act or regulations issued thereunder. &#xA7; 397.213 Waiver of preemption application. (a) Any State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe may apply to the Administrator for a waiver of preemption with respect to any highway routing designation that the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe acknowledges to be preempted by the Act, &#xA7; 397.203 of this subpart, or a court of competent jurisdiction. The Administrator may waive preemption with respect to such requirement upon a determination that such requirement- (1) Affords an equal or greater level of protection to the public than is afforded by the requirements of the Act or regulations issued under the Act, and (2) Does not unreasonably burden commerce. (b) Each application filed under this section for a waiver of preemption determination must: (1) Be submitted to the Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Attention: Office of the Chief Counsel, Enforcement and Litigation Division (MC-CCE); (2) Set forth a detailed description of the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe for which the determination is being sought; (3) Include a copy of any relevant court order or determination issued pursuant to &#xA7; 397.211; (4) Contain an express acknowledgment by the applicant that the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe is preempted under the Act or the regulations issued under the Act, unless it has been so determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or in a determination issued under this subpart; (5) Specify each provision of the Act or the regulations issued under the Act that preempts the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe; (6) State why the applicant believes that the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe affords an equal or greater level of protection to the public than is afforded by the requirements of the Act or the regulations issued under the Act; (7) State why the applicant believes that the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe does not unreasonably burden commerce; and (8) Specify what steps the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe is taking to administer and enforce effectively the preempted requirement. [57 FR 44132, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007; 78 FR 58486, Sept. 24, 2013] &#xA7; 397.215 Waiver notice. (a) The applicant State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe shall mail a copy of the application and any subsequent amendments or other documents relating to the application to each person whom the applicant reasonably ascertains will be affected by the determination sought. The copy of the application must be accompanied by a statement that the person may submit comments regarding the application to the Administrator within 45 days. The application filed with the Administrator must include a certification that the application complies with this paragraph and must include the names and addresses of each person to whom the application was sent. (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, if the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe determines that compliance with paragraph (a) of this section would be impracticable, the applicant shall: (1) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with regard to those persons whom it is reasonable and practicable to notify; and (2) Include with the application filed with the Administrator a description of the persons or class or classes of persons to whom notice was not sent. (c) The Administrator may require the applicant to provide notice in addition to that required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or may determine that the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section is not impracticable, or that notice should be published in the Federal Register. (d) The Administrator may serve notice on any other persons readily identifiable by the Administrator as persons who will be affected by the determination sought and may afford those persons an opportunity to file written comments on the application. (e) Any person submitting written comments to the Administrator with respect to an application filed under this section shall send a copy of the comments to the applicant. The person shall certify to the Administrator that he or she has complied with the requirements of this paragraph. The Administrator may notify other persons participating in the proceeding of the comments and provide an opportunity for those other persons to respond. [57 FR 44132, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 59075, Oct. 1, 2015] &#xA7; 397.217 Waiver processing. (a) The Administrator may initiate an investigation of any statement in an application and utilize any relevant facts obtained by that investigation. The Administrator may solicit and accept submissions from third persons relevant to an application and will provide the applicant an opportunity to respond to all third person submissions. In evaluating an application, the Administrator may convene a hearing or conference, if a hearing or conference will advance the evaluation of the application. (b) The Administrator may dismiss the application without prejudice if: (1) he or she determines that there is insufficient information upon which to base a determination; (2) Upon his or her request, additional information is not submitted by the applicant; or (3) The applicant fails to provide the notice required by this subpart. (c) Except as provided in this subpart, the Administrator will only consider an application for a waiver of preemption determination if: (1) The applicant expressly acknowledges in its application that the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe for which the determination is sought is preempted by the Act or the regulations thereunder; or (2) The highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or in a determination issued pursuant to &#xA7; 397.211 to be preempted by the Act or the regulations issued thereunder. (d) When the Administrator has received all substantive information necessary to process an application for a waiver of preemption determination, notice of that fact will be served upon the applicant. Additional notice to all other persons who received notice of the proceeding may be served by publishing a notice in the Federal Register. &#xA7; 397.219 Waiver determination and order. (a) Upon consideration of the application and other relevant information received or obtained during the proceeding, the Administrator issues an order setting forth his or her determination. (b) The Administrator may issue a waiver of preemption order only if he or she finds that the requirement of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe affords the public a level of safety at least equal to that afforded by the requirements of the Act and the regulations issued under the Act and does not unreasonably burden commerce. In determining whether the requirement of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe unreasonably burdens commerce, the Administrator may consider the following factors: (1) The extent to which increased costs and impairment of efficiency result from the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe; (2) Whether the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe has a rational basis; (3) Whether the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe achieves its stated purpose; and (4) Whether there is need for uniformity with regard to the subject concerned and if so, whether the highway routing designation of the State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe competes or conflicts with those of other States, political subdivisions thereof, or Indian tribes. (c) The order includes a written statement setting forth the relevant facts and the legal basis for the determination, and provides that any person aggrieved by the order may file a petition for reconsideration in accordance with &#xA7; 397.223. (d) The Administrator serves a copy of the order upon the applicant, any other person who participated in the proceeding and upon any other person readily identifiable by the Administrator as one who may be affected by the order. A copy of each order is placed on file in the public docket. The Administrator may publish the order or notice of the order in the Federal Register. (e) If no petition for reconsideration is filed within 20 days in accordance with &#xA7; 397.223, an order issued under this section constitutes the final agency decision regarding whether a particular requirement of a State, political subdivision thereof, or Indian tribe is preempted under the Act or any regulations issued thereunder, or whether preemption is waived. &#xA7; 397.221 Timeliness. If the Administrator fails to take action on the application within 90 days of serving the notice required by &#xA7; 397.217(d), the applicant may treat the application as having been denied in all respects. &#xA7; 397.223 Petition for reconsideration. (a) Any person aggrieved by an order issued under &#xA7; 397.211 or &#xA7; 397.219 may file a petition for reconsideration with the Administrator. The petition must be filed within 20 days of service of the determination or order issued under the above sections. (b) The petition must contain a concise statement of the basis for seeking reconsideration, including any specific factual or legal errors, or material information not previously available. (c) The petitioner shall mail a copy of the petition to each person who participated, either as an applicant or routing, in the waiver of preemption proceeding, accompanied by a statement that the person may submit comments concerning the petition to the Administrator within 20 days. The petition filed with the Administrator must contain a certification that the petitioner has complied with this paragraph and include the names and addresses of all persons to whom a copy of the petition was sent. (d) The Administrator's decision under this section constitutes the final agency decision. If no petition for reconsideration is filed under this section, then the determination issued under &#xA7; 397.211 or &#xA7; 397.219 becomes the final agency decision at the end of the 20 day period. &#xA7; 397.225 Judicial review. A party to a proceeding under &#xA7; 397.205(a), &#xA7; 397.213(a), or &#xA7; 397.223(a) may seek review by the appropriate district court of the United States of the decision of the Administrator under such proceeding only by filing a petition with such court within 60 days after the final agency decision.