PART 1562-OPERATIONS IN THE WASHINGTON, DC, METROPOLITAN AREA Authority: 49 U.S.C. 114, 40114, Sec. 823, Pub. L. 108-176, 117 Stat. 2595. Source: 70 FR 7162, Feb. 10, 2005, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-Maryland Three Airports: Enhanced Security Procedures for Operations at Certain Airports in the Washington, DC, Metropolitan Area Flight Restricted Zone &#xA7; 1562.1 Scope and definitions. (a) Scope. This subpart applies to the following airports, and individuals who operate an aircraft to or from those airports, that are located within the airspace designated as the Washington, DC, Metropolitan Area Flight Restricted Zone by the Federal Aviation Administration: (1) College Park Airport (CGS); (2) Potomac Airfield (VKX); and (3) Washington Executive/Hyde Field (W32). (b) Definitions. For purposes of this section: Airport security coordinator means the official at a Maryland Three Airport who is responsible for ensuring that the airport's security procedures are implemented and followed. Maryland Three Airport means any of the airports specified in paragraph (a) of this section. &#xA7; 1562.3 Operating requirements. (a) Airport operator requirements. Each operator of a Maryland Three Airport must: (1) Appoint an airport employee as the airport security coordinator; (2) Maintain and carry out security procedures approved by TSA; (3) Maintain at the airport a copy of the airport's TSA-approved security procedures; (4) Maintain at the airport a copy of each Federal Aviation Administration Notice to Airmen and rule that affects security procedures at the Maryland Three Airports; and (5) Permit officials authorized by TSA to inspect- (i) The airport; (ii) The airport's TSA-approved security procedures; and (iii) Any other documents required under this section. (b) Airport security coordinator requirements. Each airport security coordinator for a Maryland Three Airport must be approved by TSA. To obtain TSA approval, an airport security coordinator must: (1) Present to TSA, in a form and manner acceptable to TSA, his or her- (i) Name; (ii) Social Security Number; (iii) Date of birth; (iv) Address; (v) Phone number; and (vi) Fingerprints. (2) Successfully complete a TSA terrorist threat assessment; and (3) Not have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in any jurisdiction, during the 10 years prior to applying for authorization to operate to or from the airport, or while authorized to operate to or from the airport, of any crime specified in 49 CFR 1542.209 or 1572.103. (c) Security procedures. To be approved by TSA, an airport's security procedures, at a minimum, must: (1) Identify and provide contact information for the airport's airport security coordinator. (2) Contain a current record of the individuals and aircraft authorized to operate to or from the airport. (3) Contain procedures to- (i) Monitor the security of aircraft at the airport during operational and non-operational hours; and (ii) Alert the aircraft owner(s) and operator(s), the airport operator, and TSA of unsecured aircraft. (4) Contain procedures to implement and maintain security awareness procedures at the airport. (5) Contain procedures for limited approval of pilots who violate the Washington, DC, Metropolitan Area Flight Restricted Zone and are forced to land at the airport. (6) Contain any additional procedures required by TSA to provide for the security of aircraft operations to or from the airport. (d) Amendments to security procedures. Airport security procedures approved by TSA remain in effect unless TSA determines that- (1) Operations at the airport have not been conducted in accordance with those procedures; or (2) The procedures must be amended to provide for the security of aircraft operations to or from the airport. (e) Pilot requirements for TSA approval. Except as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, each pilot of an aircraft operating to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports must be approved by TSA. To obtain TSA approval, a pilot must: (1) Present to TSA- (i) The pilot's name; (ii) The pilot's Social Security Number; (iii) The pilot's date of birth; (iv) The pilot's address; (v) The pilot's phone number; (vi) The pilot's current and valid airman certificate or current student pilot certificate; (vii) The pilot's current medical certificate; (viii) One form of Government-issued picture identification of the pilot; (ix) The pilot's fingerprints, in a form and manner acceptable to TSA; and (x) A list containing the make, model, and registration number of each aircraft that the pilot intends to operate to or from the airport. (2) Successfully complete a TSA terrorist threat assessment. (3) Receive a briefing acceptable to TSA and the Federal Aviation Administration that describes procedures for operating to and from the airport. (4) Not have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in any jurisdiction, during the 10 years prior to applying for authorization to operate to or from the airport, or while authorized to operate to or from the airport, of any crime specified in 49 CFR 1542.209 or 1572.103. (5) Not, in TSA's discretion, have a record on file with the Federal Aviation Administration of a violation of- (i) A prohibited area designated under 14 CFR part 73; (ii) A flight restriction established under 14 CFR 91.141; (iii) Special security instructions issued under 14 CFR 99.7; (iv) A restricted area designated under 14 CFR part 73; (v) Emergency air traffic rules issued under 14 CFR 91.139; (vi) A temporary flight restriction designated under 14 CFR 91.137, 91.138, or 91.145; or (vii) An area designated under 14 CFR 91.143. (f) Additional pilot requirements. Except as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, each pilot of an aircraft operating to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports must: (1) Protect from unauthorized disclosure any identification information issued by TSA or the Federal Aviation Administration for the conduct of operations to or from the airport. (2) Secure the aircraft after returning to the airport from any flight. (3) Comply with any other requirements for operating to or from the airport specified by TSA or the Federal Aviation Administration. (g) Operations to any of the Maryland Three Airports. A pilot who is approved by TSA in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section may operate an aircraft to any of the Maryland Three Airports, provided that the pilot- (1) Files an instrument flight rules or visual flight rules flight plan with Leesburg Automated Flight Service Station; (2) Obtains an Air Traffic Control clearance with a discrete transponder code; and (3) Follows any arrival/departure procedures required by the Federal Aviation Administration. (h) U.S. Armed forces, law enforcement, and aeromedical services aircraft. An individual may operate a U.S. Armed Forces, law enforcement, or aeromedical services aircraft on an authorized mission to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports provided that the individual complies with any requirements for operating to or from the airport specified by TSA or the Federal Aviation Administration. (i) Continuing responsibilities. (1) If an airport security coordinator, or a pilot who is approved to operate to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports, is convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in any jurisdiction, of any crime specified in 49 CFR 1542.209 or 1572.103, the airport security coordinator or pilot must notify TSA within 24 hours of the conviction or finding of not guilty by reason of insanity. TSA may withdraw its approval of the airport security coordinator or pilot as a result of the conviction or finding of not guilty by reason of insanity. (2) If a pilot who is approved to operate to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports commits any of the violations described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, the pilot must notify TSA within 24 hours of the violation. TSA, in its discretion, may withdraw its approval of the pilot as a result of the violation. (3) If an airport security coordinator, or a pilot who is approved to operate to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports, is determined by TSA to pose a threat to national or transportation security, or a threat of terrorism, TSA may withdraw its approval of the airport security coordinator or pilot. (j) Waivers. TSA, in coordination with the Federal Aviation Administration, the United States Secret Service, and any other relevant agency, may permit an operation to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports, in deviation from the provisions of this section, if TSA finds that such action- (1) Is in the public interest; and (2) Provides the level of security required by this section. Subpart B-Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport: Enhanced Security Procedures for Certain Operations Source: 70 FR 41600, July 19, 2005, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 1562.21 Scope, general requirements, and definitions. (a) Scope. This subpart applies to aircraft operations into or out of Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA), fixed base operators located at DCA or gateway airports; individuals designated as a security coordinator by aircraft operators or fixed base operators; and crewmembers, passengers, and armed security officers on aircraft operations subject to this subpart. (b) General requirements. Each person operating an aircraft into or out of DCA must comply with this subpart, except: (1) Military, law enforcement, and medivac aircraft operations; (2) Federal and State government aircraft operations operating under an airspace waiver approved by TSA and the Federal Aviation Administration; (3) All-cargo aircraft operations; and (4) Passenger aircraft operations conducted under: (i) A full security program approved by TSA in accordance with 49 CFR 1544.101(a); or (ii) A foreign air carrier security program approved by TSA in accordance with 49 CFR 1546.101(a) or (b). (c) Other security programs. Each aircraft operator required to comply with this subpart for an aircraft operation into or out of DCA must also comply with any other TSA-approved security program that covers that operation. If any requirements of the DASSP conflict with the requirements of another TSA-approved security program, the aircraft operation must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the DASSP. (d) Definitions. For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply: Armed Security Officer Program means the security program approved by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, for security officers authorized to carry a firearm under &#xA7; 1562.29 of this part. Crewmember means a person assigned to perform duty in an aircraft during flight time. This does not include an armed security officer. DCA means Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. DASSP means the aircraft operator security program (DCA Access Standard Security Program) approved by TSA under this part for aircraft operations into and out of DCA. FBO means a fixed base operator that has been approved by TSA under this part to serve as a last point of departure for flights into or out of DCA. FBO Security Program means the security program approved by TSA under this part for FBOs to serve flights into or out of DCA. Flightcrew member means a pilot, flight engineer, or flight navigator assigned to duty in an aircraft during flight time. Gateway airport means an airport that has been approved by TSA under this part as a last point of departure for flights into DCA under this part. Passenger means any person on an aircraft other than a flightcrew member. A &#x201C;passenger&#x201D; includes an armed security officer authorized to carry a firearm in accordance with the rule. &#xA7; 1562.23 Aircraft operator and passenger requirements. (a) General. To operate into or out of DCA, an aircraft operator must: (1) Designate a security coordinator responsible for implementing the DASSP and other security requirements required under this section, and provide TSA with the security coordinator's contact information and availability in accordance with the DASSP. (2) Adopt and carry out the DASSP. (3) Ensure that each crewmember of an aircraft operating into or out of DCA meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. (4) Apply for and receive a reservation from the Federal Aviation Administration and authorization from TSA for each flight into and out of DCA in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (5) Comply with the operating requirements in paragraph (e) of this section for each flight into and out of DCA. (6) Pay any costs and fees required under this part. (7) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of sensitive security information (SSI), as defined in part 1520 of this chapter, to persons with a need to know, and refer all requests for SSI by other persons to TSA. (8) Comply with any additional security procedures required by TSA through order, Security Directive, or other means. (b) Security coordinator. Each security coordinator designated by an aircraft operator under paragraph (a) of this section: (1) Must undergo a fingerprint-based criminal history records check that does not disclose that he or she has a disqualifying criminal offense as described in &#xA7; 1544.229(d) of this chapter. This standard is met if the security coordinator is in compliance with the fingerprint-based criminal history records check requirements of &#xA7;&#xA7; 1542.209, 1544.229, or 1544.230 of this chapter with his or her current employer. (2) Must submit to TSA his or her: (i) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix, and any other names used. (ii) Current mailing address, including residential address if different than current mailing address. (iii) Date and place of birth. (iv) Social security number, (submission is voluntary, although recommended). (v) Citizenship status and date of naturalization if the individual is a naturalized citizen of the United States. (vi) Alien registration number, if applicable. (3) Must successfully complete a TSA security threat assessment. (4) May, if informed that a disqualifying offense has been disclosed, correct the record in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h) and (i) of &#xA7; 1544.229 of this chapter regarding notification and correction of records. (c) Flightcrew member requirements. Each flightcrew member of an aircraft, as defined in 49 CFR 1540.5, operating into or out of DCA: (1) Must undergo a fingerprint-based criminal history records check that does not disclose that he or she has a disqualifying criminal offense as described in &#xA7; 1544.229(d) of this chapter. This standard is met if the flightcrew member is in compliance with the fingerprint-based criminal history records check requirements of &#xA7;&#xA7; 1542.209, 1544.229, or 1544.230 of this chapter with his or her current employer. (2) Must not have a record on file with the Federal Aviation Administration of a violation of- (i) A prohibited area designated under 14 CFR part 73; (ii) A flight restriction established under 14 CFR 91.141; (iii) Special security instructions issued under 14 CFR 99.7; (iv) A restricted area designated under 14 CFR part 73; (v) Emergency air traffic rules issued under 14 CFR 91.139; (vi) A temporary flight restriction designated under 14 CFR 91.137, 91.138, or 91.145; or (vii) An area designated under 14 CFR 91.143. (3) May, if informed that a disqualifying offense has been disclosed, correct the record in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h) and (i) of &#xA7; 1544.229 of this chapter regarding notification and correction of records. (d) Flight authorization requirements. To receive authorization to operate an aircraft into or out of DCA, an aircraft operator must follow the procedures in this paragraph. (1) The aircraft operator must apply to the Federal Aviation Administration for a tentative reservation, in a form and manner approved by the Federal Aviation Administration. (2) The aircraft operator must submit to TSA, in a form and manner approved by TSA, the following information at least 24 hours prior to aircraft departure: (i) For each passenger and crewmember on the aircraft: (A) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix, and any other names used. (B) Current mailing address, including residential address if different than current mailing address. (C) Date and place of birth. (D) Social security number, (submission is voluntary, although recommended). (E) Citizenship status and date of naturalization if the individual is a naturalized citizen of the United States. (F) Alien registration number, if applicable. (ii) The registration number of the aircraft. (iii) The flight plan. (iv) Any other information required by TSA. (3) TSA will conduct a name-based security threat assessment for each passenger and crewmember. If TSA notifies the aircraft operator that a passenger or crewmember may pose a security threat, the aircraft operator must ensure that the passenger or crewmember does not board the aircraft before the aircraft departs out of DCA or out of a gateway airport to DCA. (4) If TSA approves the flight, TSA will transmit such approval to the Federal Aviation Administration for assignment of a final reservation to operate into or out of DCA. Once the Federal Aviation Administration assigns the final reservation, TSA will notify the aircraft operator. (5) TSA may, at its discretion, cancel any or all flight approvals at any time without prior notice to the aircraft operator. (6) TSA may, at its discretion, permit a flight into or out of DCA to deviate from the requirements of this subpart, if TSA finds that such action would not be detrimental to transportation security or the safe operation of the aircraft. (7) TSA may, at its discretion, require any flight into or out of DCA under this subpart to comply with additional security measures. (e) Operating requirements. Each aircraft operator must: (1) Ensure that each flight into DCA departs from a gateway airport and makes no intermediate stops before arrival at DCA. (2) Ensure that each passenger and crewmember on an aircraft operating into or out of DCA has been screened in accordance with the DASSP prior to boarding the aircraft. (3) Ensure that all accessible property and property in inaccessible cargo holds on an aircraft operating into or out of DCA has been screened in accordance with the DASSP prior to boarding the aircraft. (4) Ensure that each aircraft operating into or out of DCA has been searched in accordance with the DASSP. (5) Ensure that each passenger and crewmember on an aircraft operating into or out of DCA provides TSA with a valid government-issued picture identification in accordance with the DASSP. (6) If the aircraft operating into or out of DCA is equipped with a cockpit door, ensure that the door is closed and locked at all times during the operation of the aircraft to or from DCA, unless Federal Aviation Administration regulations require the door to remain open. (7) Ensure that each aircraft operating into or out of DCA has onboard at least one armed security officer who meets the requirements of &#xA7; 1562.29 of this chapter. This requirement does not apply if- (i) There is a Federal Air Marshal onboard; or (ii) The aircraft is being flown without passengers into DCA to pick up passengers, or out of DCA after deplaning all passengers. (8) Ensure that an aircraft operating into or out of DCA has any Federal Air Marshal onboard, at no cost to the Federal Government, if TSA or the Federal Air Marshal Service so requires. (9) Notify the National Capital Region Coordination Center prior to departure of the aircraft from DCA or a gateway airport. (10) Ensure that each aircraft operating into or out of DCA operates under instrument flight rules. (11) Ensure that each passenger complies with any security measures mandated by TSA. (12) Ensure that no prohibited items are onboard the aircraft. (f) Compliance. (1) Each aircraft operator must: (i) Permit TSA to conduct any inspections or tests, including copying records, to determine compliance with this part and the DASSP. (ii) At the request of TSA, provide evidence of compliance with this part and the DASSP, including copies of records. (2) Noncompliance with this part or the DASSP may result in the cancellation of an aircraft operator's flight approvals and other remedial or enforcement action, as appropriate. (g) Passenger requirements. Each passenger, including each armed security officer, who boards or attempts to board an aircraft under this section must: (1) Provide information to the aircraft operator as provided in this section. (2) Provide to TSA upon request a valid government-issued photo identification. (3) Comply with security measures as conveyed by the aircraft operator. (4) Comply with all applicable regulations in this chapter, including &#xA7; 1540.107 regarding submission to screening and inspection, &#xA7; 1540.109 regarding prohibition against interference with screening personnel, and &#xA7; 1540.111 regarding carriage of weapons, explosives, and incendiaries by individuals. &#xA7; 1562.25 Fixed base operator requirements. (a) Security program. Each FBO must adopt and carry out an FBO Security Program. (b) Screening and other duties. Each FBO must- (1) Designate a security coordinator who meets the requirements in &#xA7; 1562.23(b) of this part and is responsible for implementing the FBO Security Program and other security requirements required under this section, and provide TSA with the security coordinator's contact information and availability in accordance with the FBO Security Program. (2) Support the screening of persons and property in accordance with the requirements of this subpart and the FBO Security Program. (3) Support the search of aircraft in accordance with the requirements of this subpart and the FBO Security Program. (4) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of sensitive security information (SSI), as defined in part 1520 of this chapter, to persons with a need to know, and refer all requests for SSI by other persons to TSA. (5) Perform any other duties required under the FBO Security Program. (c) Compliance. (1) Each FBO must: (i) Permit TSA to conduct any inspections or tests, including copying records, to determine compliance with this part and the FBO Security Program. (ii) At the request of TSA, provide evidence of compliance with this part and the FBO Security Program, including copies of records. (2) Noncompliance with this part or the FBO Security Program may result in the cancellation of an aircraft operator's flight approvals and other remedial or enforcement action, as appropriate. &#xA7; 1562.27 Costs. (a) Each aircraft operator must pay a threat assessment fee of $15 for each passenger and crewmember whose information the aircraft operator submits to TSA in accordance with &#xA7; 1562.23(d) of this part. (b) Each aircraft operator must pay to TSA the costs associated with carrying out this subpart, as provided in its DASSP. (c) All fees and reimbursement must be remitted to TSA in a form and manner approved by TSA. (d) TSA will not issue any refunds, unless any fees or reimbursement funds were paid in error. (e) If an aircraft operator does not remit to TSA the fees and reimbursement funds required under this section, TSA may decline to process any requests for authorization from the aircraft operator. &#xA7; 1562.29 Armed security officer requirements. (a) General. Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each armed security officer must meet the following requirements: (1) Be qualified to carry a firearm in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. (2) Successfully complete a TSA security threat assessment as described in paragraph (c) of this section. (3) Meet such other requirements as TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, may establish in the Armed Security Officer Security Program. (4) Be authorized by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, under 49 U.S.C. 44903(d). (b) Qualifications. To be qualified to carry a firearm under this subpart, an individual must meet the requirements in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this section, unless otherwise authorized by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service. (1) Active law enforcement officers. An active law enforcement officer must be an employee of a governmental agency who- (i) Is authorized by law to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law; (ii) Has statutory powers of arrest; (iii) Is authorized by the agency to carry a firearm; (iv) Is not the subject of any disciplinary action by the agency; (v) Is not under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and (vi) Is not prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm. (2) Retired law enforcement officers. A retired law enforcement officer must be an individual who- (i) Retired in good standing from service with a public agency as a law enforcement officer, other than for reasons of mental instability; (ii) Before such retirement, was authorized by law to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law, and had statutory powers of arrest; (iii) Before such retirement, was regularly employed as a law enforcement officer for an aggregate of 15 years or more, or retired from service with such agency, after completing any applicable probationary period of such service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by such agency; (iv) Has a non-forfeitable right to benefits under the retirement plan of the agency; (v) Is not under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and (vi) Is not prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm. (3) Other individuals. Any other individual must- (i) Meet qualifications established by TSA, in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, in the Armed Security Officer Program; (ii) Not be under the influence of alcohol or another intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and (iii) Not be prohibited by Federal law from receiving a firearm. (c) Threat assessments. To be authorized under this section, each armed security officer: (1) Must undergo a fingerprint-based criminal history records check that does not disclose that he or she has a criminal offense that would disqualify him or her from possessing a firearm under 18 U.S.C. 922(g). (2) May, if informed that a disqualifying offense has been disclosed, correct the record in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h) and (i) of &#xA7; 1544.229 of this chapter regarding notification and correction of records. (3) Must submit to TSA his or her: (i) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix, and any other names used. (ii) Current mailing address, including residential address if different than current mailing address. (iii) Date and place of birth. (iv) Social security number, (submission is voluntary, although recommended). (v) Citizenship status and date of naturalization if the individual is a naturalized citizen of the United States. (vi) Alien registration number, if applicable. (4) Must undergo a threat assessment by TSA prior to receiving authorization under this section and prior to boarding an aircraft operating into or out of DCA as provided in &#xA7; 1562.23(d)(1) of this part. (d) Training. Each armed security officer onboard an aircraft operating into or out of DCA must: (1) Have basic law enforcement training acceptable to TSA; and (2) Successfully complete a TSA-approved training course, developed in coordination with the Federal Air Marshal Service, at the expense of the armed security officer. (e) Armed security officer program. (1) Each armed security officer onboard an aircraft operating into or out of DCA must- (i) Comply with the Armed Security Officer Program. (ii) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of sensitive security information (SSI), as defined in part 1520 of this chapter, to persons with a need to know, and refer all requests for SSI by other persons to TSA. (2) TSA and the Federal Air Marshal Service may conduct random inspections of armed security officers to ensure compliance with the Armed Security Officer Program. (f) Authority to carry firearm. An armed security officer approved under this section is authorized- (1) To carry a firearm in accordance with the Armed Security Officer Program on an aircraft operating under a DASSP into or out of DCA; and (2) To transport a firearm in accordance with the Armed Security Officer Program at any airport as needed to carry out duties under this subpart, including for travel to and from flights conducted under this subpart. (g) Use of force. Each armed security officer authorized to carry a firearm under this section may use force, including deadly force, in accordance with the Armed Security Officer Program. (h) Use of alcohol or intoxicating or hallucinatory drugs or substances. An armed security officer onboard an aircraft operating into or out of DCA may not consume alcohol or use an intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance during the flight and within 8 hours before boarding the aircraft. (i) Credential -(1) TSA credential. An armed security officer under this section must carry a credential issued by TSA. (2) Inspection of credential. An armed security officer must present the TSA-issued credential for inspection when requested by an authorized representative of TSA, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Air Marshal Service, the National Transportation Safety Board, any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer, or any authorized aircraft operator representative. (3) Preflight identification to crewmembers. When carrying a firearm, an armed security officer must identify himself or herself to all crewmembers either personally or through another member of the crew before the flight. (j) Suspension or withdrawal of authorization. At the discretion of TSA, authorization under this subpart and 49 U.S.C. 44903(d) is suspended or withdrawn upon notification by TSA.