PART 391-QUALIFICATIONS OF DRIVERS AND LONGER COMBINATION VEHICLE (LCV) DRIVER INSTRUCTORS Authority: 49 U.S.C. 504, 508, 31133, 31136, 31149, 31502; sec. 4007(b), Pub. L. 102-240, 105 Stat. 1914, 2152; sec. 114, Pub. L. 103-311, 108 Stat. 1673, 1677; sec. 215, Pub. L. 106-159, 113 Stat. 1748, 1767; sec. 32934, Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405, 830; secs. 5403 and 5524, Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312, 1548, 1560; sec. 2, Pub. L. 115-105, 131 Stat. 2263; and 49 CFR 1.87. Source: 35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970, unless otherwise noted. Editorial Note: Nomenclature changes to part 391 appear at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 391.1 Scope of the rules in this part; additional qualifications; duties of carrier-drivers. (a) The rules in this part establish minimum qualifications for persons who drive commercial motor vehicles as, for, or on behalf of motor carriers. The rules in this part also establish minimum duties of motor carriers with respect to the qualifications of their drivers. (b) An individual who meets the definition of both a motor carrier and a driver employed by that motor carrier must comply with both the rules in this part that apply to motor carriers and the rules in this part that apply to drivers. [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 53 FR 18057, May 19, 1988; 60 FR 38744, July 28, 1995; 80 FR 59074, Oct. 1, 2015] &#xA7; 391.2 General exceptions. (a) Farm custom operation. The rules in this part, except for &#xA7; 391.15(e) and (f), do not apply to a driver who drives a commercial motor vehicle controlled and operated by a person engaged in custom-harvesting operations, if the commercial motor vehicle is used to- (1) Transport farm machinery, supplies, or both, to or from a farm for custom-harvesting operations on a farm; or (2) Transport custom-harvested crops to storage or market. (b) Apiarian industries. The rules in this part, except for &#xA7; 391.15(e) and (f), do not apply to a driver who is operating a commercial motor vehicle controlled and operated by a beekeeper engaged in the seasonal transportation of bees. (c) Certain farm vehicle drivers. The rules in this part, except for &#xA7; 391.15(e) and (f), do not apply to a farm vehicle driver except a farm vehicle driver who drives an articulated (combination) commercial motor vehicle, as defined in &#xA7; 390.5 of this chapter. For limited exemptions for farm vehicle drivers of articulated commercial motor vehicles, see &#xA7; 391.67. (d) Covered farm vehicles. The rules in part 391, Subpart E-Physical Qualifications and Examinations-do not apply to drivers of &#x201C;covered farm vehicles,&#x201D; as defined in 49 CFR 390.5. (e) Pipeline welding trucks. The rules in this part do not apply to drivers of &#x201C;pipeline welding trucks&#x201D; as defined in 49 CFR 390.38(b). [76 FR 75487, Dec. 2, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 16195, Mar. 14, 2013; 78 FR 58483, Sept. 24, 2013; 81 FR 47720, July 22, 2016] Subpart B-Qualification and Disqualification of Drivers &#xA7; 391.11 General qualifications of drivers. (a) A person shall not drive a commercial motor vehicle unless he/she is qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as provided in &#xA7; 391.63, a motor carrier shall not require or permit a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle unless that person is qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle. (b) Except as provided in subpart G of this part, a person is qualified to drive a motor vehicle if he/she- (1) Is at least 21 years old; (2) Can read and speak the English language sufficiently to converse with the general public, to understand highway traffic signs and signals in the English language, to respond to official inquiries, and to make entries on reports and records; (3) Can, by reason of experience, training, or both, safely operate the type of commercial motor vehicle he/she drives; (4) Is physically qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with subpart E-Physical Qualifications and Examinations of this part; (5) Has a currently valid commercial motor vehicle operator's license issued only by one State or jurisdiction; (6) Is not disqualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle under the rules in &#xA7; 391.15; and (7) Has successfully completed a driver's road test and has been issued a certificate of driver's road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.31, or has presented an operator's license or a certificate of road test which the motor carrier that employs him/her has accepted as equivalent to a road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.33. [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 35 FR 17420, Nov. 13, 1970; 35 FR 19181, Dec. 18, 1970; 36 FR 222, Jan. 7, 1971, 36 FR 24220, Dec. 22, 1971; 45 FR 46424, July 10, 1980; 52 FR 20589, June 1, 1987; 59 FR 60323, Nov. 23, 1994; 60 FR 38744, 38745, July 28, 1995; 63 FR 33276, June 18, 1998; 87 FR 13208, Mar. 9, 2022] &#xA7; 391.13 Responsibilities of drivers. In order to comply with the requirements of &#xA7;&#xA7; 392.9(a) and 383.111(a)(16) of this subchapter, a motor carrier shall not require or permit a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle unless the person- (a) Can, by reason of experience, training, or both, determine whether the cargo he/she transports (including baggage in a passenger-carrying commercial motor vehicle) has been properly located, distributed, and secured in or on the commercial motor vehicle he/she drives; (b) Is familiar with methods and procedures for securing cargo in or on the commercial motor vehicle he/she drives. [63 FR 33277, June 18, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 59074, Oct. 1, 2015] &#xA7; 391.15 Disqualification of drivers. (a) General. A driver who is disqualified shall not drive a commercial motor vehicle. A motor carrier shall not require or permit a driver who is disqualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle. (b) Disqualification for loss of driving privileges. (1) A driver is disqualified for the duration of the driver's loss of his/her privilege to operate a commercial motor vehicle on public highways, either temporarily or permanently, by reason of the revocation, suspension, withdrawal, or denial of an operator's license, permit, or privilege, until that operator's license, permit, or privilege is restored by the authority that revoked, suspended, withdrew, or denied it. (2) A driver who receives a notice that his/her license, permit, or privilege to operate a commercial motor vehicle has been revoked, suspended, or withdrawn shall notify the motor carrier that employs him/her of the contents of the notice before the end of the business day following the day the driver received it. (c) Disqualification for criminal and other offenses -(1) General rule. A driver who is convicted of (or forfeits bond or collateral upon a charge of) a disqualifying offense specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is disqualified for the period of time specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if- (i) The offense was committed during on-duty time as defined in &#xA7; 395.2 of this subchapter or as otherwise specified; and (ii) The driver is employed by a motor carrier or is engaged in activities that are in furtherance of a commercial enterprise in interstate, intrastate, or foreign commerce. (2) Disqualifying offenses. The following offenses are disqualifying offenses: (i) Driving a commercial motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol. This shall include: (A) Driving a commercial motor vehicle while the person's alcohol concentration is 0.04 percent or more; (B) Driving under the influence of alcohol, as prescribed by State law; or (C) Refusal to undergo such testing as is required by any State or jurisdiction in the enforcement of &#xA7; 391.15(c)(2)(i) (A) or (B), or &#xA7; 392.5(a)(2). (ii) Driving a commercial motor vehicle under the influence of a 21 CFR 1308.11 Schedule I identified controlled substance, an amphetamine, a narcotic drug, a formulation of an amphetamine, or a derivative of a narcotic drug; (iii) Transportation, possession, or unlawful use of a 21 CFR 1308.11 Schedule I identified controlled substance, amphetamines, narcotic drugs, formulations of an amphetamine, or derivatives of narcotic drugs while the driver is on duty, as the term on-duty time is defined in &#xA7; 395.2 of this subchapter; (iv) Leaving the scene of an accident while operating a commercial motor vehicle; or (v) A felony involving the use of a commercial motor vehicle. (3) Duration of disqualification -(i) First offenders. A driver is disqualified for 1 year after the date of conviction or forfeiture of bond or collateral if, during the 3 years preceding that date, the driver was not convicted of, or did not forfeit bond or collateral upon a charge of an offense that would disqualify the driver under the rules of this section. Exemption. The period of disqualification is 6 months if the conviction or forfeiture of bond or collateral soley concerned the transportation or possession of substances named in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. (ii) Subsequent offenders. A driver is disqualified for 3 years after the date of his/her conviction or forfeiture of bond or collateral if, during the 3 years preceding that date, he/she was convicted of, or forfeited bond or collateral upon a charge of, an offense that would disqualify him/her under the rules in this section. (d) Disqualification for violation of out-of-service orders -(1) General rule. A driver who is convicted of violating an out-of-service order is disqualified for the period of time specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (2) Duration of disqualification for violation of out-of-service orders -(i) First violation. A driver is disqualified for not less than 90 days nor more than one year if the driver is convicted of a first violation of an out-of-service order. (ii) Second violation. A driver is disqualified for not less than one year nor more than five years if, during any 10-year period, the driver is convicted of two violations of out-of-service orders in separate incidents. (iii) Third or subsequent violation. A driver is disqualified for not less than three years nor more than five years if, during any 10-year period, the driver is convicted of three or more violations of out-of-service orders in separate incidents. (iv) Special rule for hazardous materials and passenger offenses. A driver is disqualified for a period of not less than 180 days nor more than two years if the driver is convicted of a first violation of an out-of-service order while transporting hazardous materials required to be placarded under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 5101 et seq. ), or while operating commercial motor vehicles designed to transport more than 15 passengers, including the driver. A driver is disqualified for a period of not less than three years nor more than five years if, during any 10-year period, the driver is convicted of any subsequent violations of out-of-service orders, in separate incidents, while transporting hazardous materials required to be placarded under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, or while operating commercial motor vehicles designed to transport more than 15 passengers, including the driver. (e) Disqualification for violation of prohibition of texting while driving a commercial motor vehicle- (1) General rule. A driver who is convicted of violating the prohibition of texting in &#xA7; 392.80(a) of this chapter is disqualified for the period of time specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (2) Duration. Disqualification for violation of prohibition of texting while driving a commercial motor vehicle- (i) Second violation. A driver is disqualified for 60 days if the driver is convicted of two violations of &#xA7; 392.80(a) of this chapter in separate incidents during any 3-year period. (ii) Third or subsequent violation. A driver is disqualified for 120 days if the driver is convicted of three or more violations of &#xA7; 392.80(a) of this chapter in separate incidents during any 3-year period. (f) Disqualification for violation of a restriction on using a hand-held mobile telephone while driving a commercial motor vehicle- (1) General rule. A driver who is convicted of violating the restriction on using a hand-held mobile telephone in &#xA7; 392.82(a) of this chapter is disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle for the period of time specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. (2) Duration. Disqualification for violation of a restriction on using a hand-held mobile telephone while driving a commercial motor vehicle- (i) Second violation. A driver is disqualified for 60 days if the driver is convicted of two violations of &#xA7; 392.82(a) of this chapter in separate incidents committed during any 3-year period. (ii) Third or subsequent violation. A driver is disqualified for 120 days if the driver is convicted of three or more violations of &#xA7; 392.82(a) of this chapter in separate incidents committed during any 3-year period. [37 FR 24902, Nov. 23, 1972] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 391.15, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. Subpart C-Background and Character &#xA7; 391.21 Application for employment. (a) Except as provided in subpart G of this part, a person shall not drive a commercial motor vehicle unless he/she has completed and furnished the motor carrier that employs him/her with an application for employment that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. (b) The application for employment shall be made on a form furnished by the motor carrier. Each application form must be completed by the applicant, must be signed by him/her, and must contain the following information: (1) The name and address of the employing motor carrier; (2) The applicant's name, address, date of birth, and social security number; (3) The addresses at which the applicant has resided during the 3 years preceding the date on which the application is submitted; (4) The date on which the application is submitted; (5) The issuing driver's licensing authority, number, and expiration date of each unexpired commercial motor vehicle operator's license or permit that has been issued to the applicant; (6) The nature and extent of the applicant's experience in the operation of motor vehicles, including the type of equipment (such as buses, trucks, truck tractors, semitrailers, full trailers, and pole trailers) which he/she has operated; (7) A list of all motor vehicle accidents in which the applicant was involved during the 3 years preceding the date the application is submitted, specifying the date and nature of each accident and any fatalities or personal injuries it caused; (8) A list of all violations of motor vehicle laws or ordinances (other than violations involving only parking) of which the applicant was convicted or forfeited bond or collateral during the 3 years preceding the date the application is submitted; (9) A statement setting forth in detail the facts and circumstances of any denial, revocation, or suspension of any license, permit, or privilege to operate a motor vehicle that has been issued to the applicant, or a statement that no such denial, revocation, or suspension has occurred; (10)(i) A list of the names and addresses of the applicant's employers during the 3 years preceding the date the application is submitted, (ii) The dates he or she was employed by that employer, (iii) The reason for leaving the employ of that employer, (iv) After October 29, 2004, whether the (A) Applicant was subject to the FMCSRs while employed by that previous employer, (B) Job was designated as a safety sensitive function in any DOT regulated mode subject to alcohol and controlled substances testing requirements as required by 49 CFR part 40; (11) For those drivers applying to operate a commercial motor vehicle as defined by part 383 of this subchapter, a list of the names and addresses of the applicant's employers during the 7-year period preceding the 3 years contained in paragraph (b)(10) of this section for which the applicant was an operator of a commercial motor vehicle, together with the dates of employment and the reasons for leaving such employment; and (12) The following certification and signature line, which must appear at the end of the application form and be signed by the applicant: This certifies that this application was completed by me, and that all entries on it and information in it are true and complete to the best of my knowledge. (Date) (Applicant's signature) (c) A motor carrier may require an applicant to provide information in addition to the information required by paragraph (b) of this section on the application form. (d) Before an application is submitted, the motor carrier must inform the applicant that the information he/she provides in accordance with paragraph (b)(10) of this section may be used, and the applicant's previous employers will be contacted, for the purpose of investigating the applicant's safety performance history information as required by paragraphs (d) and (e) of &#xA7; 391.23. The prospective employer must also notify the driver in writing of his/her due process rights as specified in &#xA7; 391.23(i) regarding information received as a result of these investigations. [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 35 FR 17420, Nov. 13, 1970; 52 FR 20589, June 1, 1987; 60 FR 38744, July 28, 1995; 69 FR 16719, Mar. 30, 2004; 87 FR 13208, Mar. 9, 2022] &#xA7; 391.23 Investigation and inquiries. (a) Except as provided in subpart G of this part, each motor carrier shall make the following investigations and inquiries with respect to each driver it employs, other than a person who has been a regularly employed driver of the motor carrier for a continuous period which began before January 1, 1971: (1) An inquiry, within 30 days of the date the driver's employment begins, to each State where the driver held or holds a motor vehicle operator's license or permit during the preceding 3 years, to obtain that driver's motor vehicle record covering that driver's prior 3-year driving history. (2) An investigation of the driver's safety performance history with Department of Transportation regulated employers during the preceding three years. (b) A copy of the motor vehicle record(s) obtained in response to the inquiry or inquiries to each driver's licensing authority required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be placed in the driver qualification file within 30 days of the date the driver's employment begins and be retained in compliance with &#xA7; 391.51. If no motor vehicle record is received from a driver's licensing authority required to submit this response, the motor carrier must document a good faith effort to obtain such information. The inquiry to a driver's licensing authority must be made in the form and manner each authority prescribes. (c)(1) Replies to the investigations of the driver's safety performance history required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or documentation of good faith efforts to obtain the investigation data, must be placed in the driver investigation history file, after October 29, 2004, within 30 days of the date the driver's employment begins. Any period of time required to exercise the driver's due process rights to review the information received, request a previous employer to correct or include a rebuttal, is separate and apart from this 30-day requirement to document investigation of the driver safety performance history data. (2) The investigation may consist of personal interviews, telephone interviews, letters, or any other method for investigating that the carrier deems appropriate. Each motor carrier must make a written record with respect to each previous employer contacted, or good faith efforts to do so. The record must include the previous employer's name and address, the date the previous employer was contacted, or the attempts made, and the information received about the driver from the previous employer. Failures to contact a previous employer, or of them to provide the required safety performance history information, must be documented. The record must be maintained pursuant to &#xA7; 391.53. (3) Prospective employers should report failures of previous employers to respond to an investigation to the FMCSA and use the complaint procedures specified at &#xA7; 386.12 of this subchapter. Keep a copy of the reports in the driver investigation history file as part of documenting a good faith effort to obtain the required information. (4) For drivers with no previous employment experience working for a DOT-regulated employer during the preceding three years, documentation that no investigation was possible must be placed in the driver investigation history file, after October 29, 2004, within the required 30 days of the date the driver's employment begins. (d) The prospective motor carrier must investigate, at a minimum, the information listed in this paragraph from all previous employers of the applicant that employed the driver to operate a CMV within the previous three years. The investigation request must contain specific contact information on where the previous motor carrier employers should send the information requested. (1) General driver identification and employment verification information. (2) The data elements as specified in &#xA7; 390.15(b)(1) of this chapter for accidents involving the driver that occurred in the three-year period preceding the date of the employment application. (i) Any accidents as defined by &#xA7; 390.5 of this chapter. (ii) Any accidents the previous employer may wish to provide that are retained pursuant to &#xA7; 390.15(b)(2), or pursuant to the employer's internal policies for retaining more detailed minor accident information. (e) In addition to the investigations required by paragraph (d) of this section, the prospective motor carrier employers must investigate the information listed below in this paragraph from all previous DOT regulated employers that employed the driver within the previous three years from the date of the employment application, in a safety-sensitive function that required alcohol and controlled substance testing specified by 49 CFR part 40. (1) Whether, within the previous three years, the driver had violated the alcohol and controlled substances prohibitions under subpart B of part 382 of this chapter, or 49 CFR part 40. (2) Whether the driver failed to undertake or complete a rehabilitation program prescribed by a substance abuse professional (SAP) pursuant to &#xA7; 382.605 of this chapter, or 49 CFR part 40, subpart O. If the previous employer does not know this information ( e.g., an employer that terminated an employee who tested positive on a drug test), the prospective motor carrier must obtain documentation of the driver's successful completion of the SAP's referral directly from the driver. (3) For a driver who had successfully completed a SAP's rehabilitation referral, and remained in the employ of the referring employer, information on whether the driver had the following testing violations subsequent to completion of a &#xA7; 382.605 or 49 CFR part 40, subpart O referral: (i) Alcohol tests with a result of 0.04 or higher alcohol concentration; (ii) Verified positive drug tests; (iii) Refusals to be tested (including verified adulterated or substituted drug test results). (4) As of January 6, 2023, employers subject to &#xA7; 382.701(a) of this chapter must use the Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse to comply with the requirements of this section with respect to FMCSA-regulated employers. (i) If an applicant who is subject to follow-up testing has not successfully completed all follow-up tests, the employer must request the applicant's follow-up testing plan directly from the previous employer in accordance with &#xA7; 40.25(b)(5) of this title. (ii) If an applicant was subject to an alcohol and controlled substance testing program under the requirements of a DOT mode other than FMCSA, the employer must request alcohol and controlled substances information required under this section directly from those employers regulated by a DOT mode other than FMCSA. (f)(1) A prospective motor carrier employer must provide to the previous employer the driver's consent meeting the requirements of &#xA7; 40.321(b) of this title for the release of the information in paragraph (e) of this section. If the driver refuses to provide this consent, the prospective motor carrier employer must not permit the driver to operate a commercial motor vehicle for that motor carrier. (2) If a driver refuses to grant consent for the prospective motor carrier employer to query the Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the prospective motor carrier employer must not permit the driver to operate a commercial motor vehicle. (g) After October 29, 2004, previous employers must: (1) Respond to each request for the DOT defined information in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section within 30 days after the request is received. If there is no safety performance history information to report for that driver, previous motor carrier employers are nonetheless required to send a response confirming the non-existence of any such data, including the driver identification information and dates of employment. (2) Take all precautions reasonably necessary to ensure the accuracy of the records. (3) Provide specific contact information in case a driver chooses to contact the previous employer regarding correction or rebuttal of the data. (4) Keep a record of each request and the response for one year, including the date, the party to whom it was released, and a summary identifying what was provided. (5) Until May 1, 2006, carriers need only provide information for accidents that occurred after April 29, 2003. (h) The release of information under this section may take any form that reasonably ensures confidentiality, including letter, facsimile, or e-mail. The previous employer and its agents and insurers must take all precautions reasonably necessary to protect the driver safety performance history records from disclosure to any person not directly involved in forwarding the records, except the previous employer's insurer, except that the previous employer may not provide any alcohol or controlled substances information to the previous employer's insurer. (i)(1) The prospective employer must expressly notify drivers with Department of Transportation regulated employment during the preceding three years-via the application form or other written document prior to any hiring decision-that he or she has the following rights regarding the investigative information that will be provided to the prospective employer pursuant to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section: (i) The right to review information provided by previous employers; (ii) The right to have errors in the information corrected by the previous employer and for that previous employer to re-send the corrected information to the prospective employer; (iii) The right to have a rebuttal statement attached to the alleged erroneous information, if the previous employer and the driver cannot agree on the accuracy of the information. (2) Drivers who have previous Department of Transportation regulated employment history in the preceding three years, and wish to review previous employer-provided investigative information must submit a written request to the prospective employer, which may be done at any time, including when applying, or as late as 30 days after being employed or being notified of denial of employment. The prospective employer must provide this information to the applicant within five (5) business days of receiving the written request. If the prospective employer has not yet received the requested information from the previous employer(s), then the five-business days deadline will begin when the prospective employer receives the requested safety performance history information. If the driver has not arranged to pick up or receive the requested records within thirty (30) days of the prospective employer making them available, the prospective motor carrier may consider the driver to have waived his/her request to review the records. (j)(1) Drivers wishing to request correction of erroneous information in records received pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section must send the request for the correction to the previous employer that provided the records to the prospective employer. (2) After October 29, 2004, the previous employer must either correct and forward the information to the prospective motor carrier employer, or notify the driver within 15 days of receiving a driver's request to correct the data that it does not agree to correct the data. If the previous employer corrects and forwards the data as requested, that employer must also retain the corrected information as part of the driver's safety performance history record and provide it to subsequent prospective employers when requests for this information are received. If the previous employer corrects the data and forwards it to the prospective motor carrier employer, there is no need to notify the driver. (3) Drivers wishing to rebut information in records received pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section must send the rebuttal to the previous employer with instructions to include the rebuttal in that driver's safety performance history. (4) After October 29, 2004, within five business days of receiving a rebuttal from a driver, the previous employer must: (i) Forward a copy of the rebuttal to the prospective motor carrier employer; (ii) Append the rebuttal to the driver's information in the carrier's appropriate file, to be included as part of the response for any subsequent investigating prospective employers for the duration of the three-year data retention requirement. (5) The driver may submit a rebuttal initially without a request for correction, or subsequent to a request for correction. (6) The driver may report failures of previous employers to correct information or include the driver's rebuttal as part of the safety performance information, to the FMCSA following procedures specified at &#xA7; 386.12. (k)(1) The prospective motor carrier employer must use the information described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section only as part of deciding whether to hire the driver. (2) The prospective motor carrier employer, its agents and insurers must take all precautions reasonably necessary to protect the records from disclosure to any person not directly involved in deciding whether to hire the driver. The prospective motor carrier employer may not provide any alcohol or controlled substances information to the prospective motor carrier employer's insurer. (l)(1) No action or proceeding for defamation, invasion of privacy, or interference with a contract that is based on the furnishing or use of information in accordance with this section may be brought against- (i) A motor carrier investigating the information, described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, of an individual under consideration for employment as a commercial motor vehicle driver, (ii) A person who has provided such information; or (iii) The agents or insurers of a person described in paragraph (l)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, except insurers are not granted a limitation on liability for any alcohol and controlled substance information. (2) The protections in paragraph (l)(1) of this section do not apply to persons who knowingly furnish false information, or who are not in compliance with the procedures specified for these investigations. (m)(1) The motor carrier must obtain an original or copy of the medical examiner's certificate issued in accordance with &#xA7; 391.43, and any medical variance on which the certification is based, and, beginning on or after May 21, 2014, verify the driver was certified by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners as of the date of issuance of the medical examiner's certificate, and place the records in the driver qualification file, before allowing the driver to operate a CMV. (2) For drivers required to have a commercial driver's license under part 383 of this chapter, beginning January 30, 2015, using the CDLIS motor vehicle record obtained from the current licensing State, the motor carrier must verify and document in the driver qualification file the following information before allowing the driver to operate a CMV: (i) The type of operation the driver self-certified that he or she will perform in accordance with &#xA7; 383.71(b)(1) of this chapter. (ii)(A) Beginning on May 21, 2014, and through June 22, 2025, that the driver was certified by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners as of the date of medical examiner's certificate issuance. (B) If the driver has certified under paragraph (m)(2)(i)(A) of this section that he or she expects to operate in interstate commerce, that the driver has a valid medical examiner's certificate and any required medical variances. (iii) Beginning on January 30, 2015, and through June 22, 2025, if the driver provided the motor carrier with a copy of the current medical examiner's certificate that was submitted to the State in accordance with &#xA7; 383.73(b)(5) of this chapter, the motor carrier may use a copy of that medical examiner's certificate as proof of the driver's medical certification for up to 15 days after the date it was issued. (3) For drivers required to have a commercial learner's permit under part 383 of this chapter: (i) Beginning July 8, 2015, using the CDLIS motor vehicle record obtained from the current licensing State, the motor carrier must verify and document in the driver qualification file the following information before allowing the driver to operate a CMV: (A) The type of operation the driver self-certified that he or she will perform in accordance with &#xA7; 383.71(b)(1) and (g) of this chapter. (B)( 1 ) Through June 22, 2025, that the driver was certified by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners as of the date of medical examiner's certificate issuance. ( 2 ) If the driver has a commercial learner's permit and has certified under paragraph (m)(3)(i)(A) of this section that he or she expects to operate in interstate commerce, that the driver has a valid medical examiner's certificate and any required medical variances. (C) Through June 22, 2025, if the driver provided the motor carrier with a copy of the current medical examiner's certificate that was submitted to the State in accordance with &#xA7; 383.73(a)(2)(vii) of this chapter, the motor carrier may use a copy of that medical examiner's certificate as proof of the driver's medical certification for up to 15 days after the date it was issued. (ii) Until July 8, 2015, if a driver operating in non-excepted, interstate commerce has no medical certification status information on the CDLIS MVR obtained from the current State driver licensing agency, the employing motor carrier may accept a medical examiner's certificate issued to that driver, and place a copy of it in the driver qualification file before allowing the driver to operate a CMV in interstate commerce. (4) In the event of a conflict between the medical certification information provided electronically by FMCSA and a paper copy of the medical examiner's certificate, the medical certification information provided electronically by FMCSA shall control. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2126-0004) [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 391.23, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 391.25 Annual inquiry and review of driving record. (a) Except as provided in subpart G of this part, each motor carrier shall, at least once every 12 months, make an inquiry to obtain the motor vehicle record of each driver it employs, covering at least the preceding 12 months, to each driver's licensing authority where the driver held a commercial motor vehicle operator's license or permit during the time period. (b) Except as provided in subpart G of this part, each motor carrier shall, at least once every 12 months, review the motor vehicle record of each driver it employs to determine whether that driver meets minimum requirements for safe driving or is disqualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to &#xA7; 391.15. (1) The motor carrier must consider any evidence that the driver has violated any applicable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations in this subchapter or Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR chapter I, subchapter C). (2) The motor carrier must consider the driver's accident record and any evidence that the driver has violated laws governing the operation of motor vehicles, and must give great weight to violations, such as speeding, reckless driving, and operating while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, that indicate that the driver has exhibited a disregard for the safety of the public. (c)(1) A copy of the motor vehicle record required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be maintained in the driver's qualification file. (2) A note, including the name of the person who performed the review of the driving record required by paragraph (b) of this section and the date of such review, shall be maintained in the driver's qualification file. [63 FR 33277, June 18, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 73127, Dec. 1, 2008; 87 FR 13209, Mar. 9, 2022; 87 FR 59036, Sept. 29, 2022] &#xA7; 391.27 [Reserved] Subpart D-Tests &#xA7; 391.31 Road test. (a) Except as provided in subpart G, a person shall not drive a commercial motor vehicle unless he/she has first successfully completed a road test and has been issued a certificate of driver's road test in accordance with this section. (b) The road test shall be given by the motor carrier or a person designated by it. However, a driver who is a motor carrier must be given the test by a person other than himself/herself. The test shall be given by a person who is competent to evaluate and determine whether the person who takes the test has demonstrated that he/she is capable of operating the commercial motor vehicle, and associated equipment, that the motor carrier intends to assign him/her. (c) The road test must be of sufficient duration to enable the person who gives it to evaluate the skill of the person who takes it at handling the commercial motor vehicle, and associated equipment, that the motor carriers intends to assign to him/her. As a minimum, the person who takes the test must be tested, while operating the type of commercial motor vehicle the motor carrier intends to assign him/her, on his/her skill at performing each of the following operations: (1) The pretrip inspection required by &#xA7; 392.7 of this subchapter; (2) Coupling and uncoupling of combination units, if the equipment he/she may drive includes combination units; (3) Placing the commercial motor vehicle in operation; (4) Use of the commercial motor vehicle's controls and emergency equipment; (5) Operating the commercial motor vehicle in traffic and while passing other motor vehicles; (6) Turning the commercial motor vehicle; (7) Braking, and slowing the commercial motor vehicle by means other than braking; and (8) Backing and parking the commercial motor vehicle. (d) The motor carrier shall provide a road test form on which the person who gives the test shall rate the performance of the person who takes it at each operation or activity which is a part of the test. After he/she completes the form, the person who gave the test shall sign it. (e) If the road test is successfully completed, the person who gave it shall complete a certificate of driver's road test in substantially the form prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section. (f) The form for the certificate of driver's road test is substantially as follows: Certification of Road Test Driver's name Type of power unit ____________ Type of trailer(s) If passenger carrier, type of bus ____________ This is to certify that the above-named driver was given a road test under my supervision on ____________, 20____, consisting of approximately ______ miles of driving. It is my considered opinion that this driver possesses sufficient driving skill to operate safely the type of commercial motor vehicle listed above. (Signature of examiner) (Title) (Organization and address of examiner) (g) A copy of the certificate required by paragraph (e) of this section shall be given to the person who was examined. The motor carrier shall retain in the driver qualification file of the person who was examined- (1) The original of the signed road test form required by paragraph (d) of this section; and (2) The original, or a copy of, the certificate required by paragraph (e) of this section. (h) The information collection requirements of this section have been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) and have been assigned OMB control number 2126-0072. [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 36 FR 223, Jan. 7, 1971; 59 FR 8752, Feb. 23, 1994; 60 FR 38744, July 28, 1995; 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 87 FR 3417, Jan. 21, 2022] &#xA7; 391.33 Equivalent of road test. (a) In place of, and as equivalent to, the road test required by &#xA7; 391.31, a person who seeks to drive a commercial motor vehicle may present, and a motor carrier may accept- (1) A valid Commercial Driver's License as defined in &#xA7; 383.5 of this subchapter, but not including double/triple trailer or tank vehicle endorsements, which has been issued to him/her to operate specific categories of commercial motor vehicles and which, under the laws of that State, licenses him/her after successful completion of a road test in a commercial motor vehicle of the type the motor carrier intends to assign to him/her; or (2) A copy of a valid certificate of driver's road test issued to him/her pursuant to &#xA7; 391.31 within the preceding 3 years. (b) If a driver presents, and a motor carrier accepts, a license or certificate as equivalent to the road test, the motor carrier shall retain a legible copy of the license or certificate in its files as part of the driver's qualification file. (c) A motor carrier may require any person who presents a license or certificate as equivalent to the road test to take a road test or any other test of his/her driving skill as a condition to his/her employment as a driver. [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 38744, July 28, 1995; 63 FR 33277, June 18, 1998] Subpart E-Physical Qualifications and Examinations &#xA7; 391.41 Physical qualifications for drivers. (a)(1)(i) A person subject to this part must not operate a commercial motor vehicle unless he or she is medically certified as physically qualified to do so, and, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, when on-duty has on his or her person the original, or a copy, of a current medical examiner's certificate that he or she is physically qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle. NOTE: Effective December 29, 1991, and as amended on January 19, 2017, the FMCSA Administrator determined that the Licencia Federal de Conductor issued by the United Mexican States is recognized as proof of medical fitness to drive a CMV. The United States and Canada entered into a Reciprocity Agreement, effective March 30, 1999, recognizing that a Canadian commercial driver's license is proof of medical fitness to drive a CMV. Therefore, Canadian and Mexican CMV drivers are not required to have in their possession a medical examiner's certificate if the driver has been issued, and possesses, a valid commercial driver license issued by the United Mexican States, or a Canadian Province or Territory, and whose license and medical status, including any waiver or exemption, can be electronically verified. Drivers from any of the countries who have received a medical authorization that deviates from the mutually accepted compatible medical standards of the resident country are not qualified to drive a CMV in the other countries. For example, Canadian drivers who do not meet the medical fitness provisions of the Canadian National Safety Code for Motor Carriers but are issued a waiver by one of the Canadian Provinces or Territories, are not qualified to drive a CMV in the United States. In addition, U.S. drivers who received a medical variance from FMCSA are not qualified to drive a CMV in Canada. (ii) A person who qualifies for the medical examiner's certificate by virtue of having obtained a medical variance from FMCSA, in the form of an exemption letter or a skill performance evaluation certificate, must have on his or her person a copy of the variance documentation when on-duty. (2) CDL/CLP exception. (i)(A) Beginning on January 30, 2015 and through June 22, 2025, a driver required to have a commercial driver's license under part 383 of this chapter, and who submitted a current medical examiner's certificate to the State in accordance with 49 CFR 383.71(h) documenting that he or she meets the physical qualification requirements of this part, no longer needs to carry on his or her person the medical examiner's certificate specified at &#xA7; 391.43(h), or a copy, for more than 15 days after the date it was issued as valid proof of medical certification. (B) On or after June 23, 2025, a driver required to have a commercial driver's license or a commercial learner's permit under 49 CFR part 383, and who has a current medical examiner's certificate documenting that he or she meets the physical qualification requirements of this part, no longer needs to carry on his or her person the medical examiner's certificate specified at &#xA7; 391.43(h). (ii) Beginning on July 8, 2015, and through June 22, 2025, a driver required to have a commercial learner's permit under part 383 of this chapter, and who submitted a current medical examiner's certificate to the State in accordance with &#xA7; 383.71(h) of this chapter documenting that he or she meets the physical qualification requirements of this part, no longer needs to carry on his or her person the medical examiner's certificate specified at &#xA7; 391.43(h), or a copy for more than 15 days after the date it was issued as valid proof of medical certification. (iii) A CDL or CLP holder required by &#xA7; 383.71(h) of this chapter to obtain a medical examiner's certificate, who obtained such by virtue of having obtained a medical variance from FMCSA, must continue to have in his or her possession the original or copy of that medical variance documentation at all times when on-duty. (iv) In the event of a conflict between the medical certification information provided electronically by FMCSA and a paper copy of the medical examiner's certificate, the medical certification information provided electronically by FMCSA shall control. (3) A person is physically qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle if: (i) That person meets the physical qualification standards in paragraph (b) of this section and has complied with the medical examination requirements in &#xA7; 391.43; or (ii) That person obtained from FMCSA a medical variance from the physical qualification standards in paragraph (b) of this section and has complied with the medical examination requirement in &#xA7; 391.43. (b) A person is physically qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle if that person- (1) Has no loss of a foot, a leg, a hand, or an arm, or has been granted a skill performance evaluation certificate pursuant to &#xA7; 391.49; (2) Has no impairment of: (i) A hand or finger which interferes with prehension or power grasping; or (ii) An arm, foot, or leg which interferes with the ability to perform normal tasks associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle; or any other significant limb defect or limitation which interferes with the ability to perform normal tasks associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle; or has been granted a skill performance evaluation certificate pursuant to &#xA7; 391.49; (3) Has no established medical history or clinical diagnosis of diabetes mellitus currently treated with insulin for control, unless the person meets the requirements in &#xA7; 391.46; (4) Has no current clinical diagnosis of myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, coronary insufficiency, thrombosis, or any other cardiovascular disease of a variety known to be accompanied by syncope, dyspnea, collapse, or congestive cardiac failure; (5) Has no established medical history or clinical diagnosis of a respiratory dysfunction likely to interfere with his/her ability to control and drive a commercial motor vehicle safely; (6) Has no current clinical diagnosis of high blood pressure likely to interfere with his/her ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely; (7) Has no established medical history or clinical diagnosis of rheumatic, arthritic, orthopedic, muscular, neuromuscular, or vascular disease which interferes with his/her ability to control and operate a commercial motor vehicle safely; (8) Has no established medical history or clinical diagnosis of epilepsy or any other condition which is likely to cause loss of consciousness or any loss of ability to control a commercial motor vehicle; (9) Has no mental, nervous, organic, or functional disease or psychiatric disorder likely to interfere with his/her ability to drive a commercial motor vehicle safely; (10)(i) Has distant visual acuity of at least 20/40 (Snellen) in each eye without corrective lenses or visual acuity separately corrected to 20/40 (Snellen) or better with corrective lenses, distant binocular acuity of at least 20/40 (Snellen) in both eyes with or without corrective lenses, field of vision of at least 70&#xB0; in the horizontal meridian in each eye, and the ability to recognize the colors of traffic signals and devices showing standard red, green, and amber; or (ii) Meets the requirements in &#xA7; 391.44, if the person does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both, in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section; (11) First perceives a forced whispered voice in the better ear at not less than 5 feet with or without the use of a hearing aid or, if tested by use of an audiometric device, does not have an average hearing loss in the better ear greater than 40 decibels at 500 Hz, 1,000 Hz, and 2,000 Hz with or without a hearing aid when the audiometric device is calibrated to American National Standard (formerly ASA Standard) Z24.5-1951; (12)(i) Does not use any drug or substance identified in 21 CFR 1308.11 Schedule I, an amphetamine, a narcotic, or other habit-forming drug; or (ii) Does not use any non-Schedule I drug or substance that is identified in the other Schedules in 21 CFR part 1308 except when the use is prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner, as defined in &#xA7; 382.107 of this chapter, who is familiar with the driver's medical history and has advised the driver that the substance will not adversely affect the driver's ability to safely operate a commercial motor vehicle; and (13) Has no current clinical diagnosis of alcoholism. [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 391.41, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 391.43 Medical examination; certificate of physical examination. (a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, the medical examination must be performed by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners under subpart D of part 390 of this chapter. (b) Exceptions: (1) A licensed ophthalmologist or licensed optometrist may perform the part of the medical examination that involves visual acuity, field of vision, and the ability to recognize colors as specified in &#xA7; 391.41(b)(10). (2) A certified VA medical examiner must only perform medical examinations of veteran operators. (c) Medical examiners shall: (1) Be knowledgeable of the specific physical and mental demands associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle and the requirements of this subpart, including the medical advisory criteria prepared by the FMCSA as guidelines to aid the medical examiner in making the qualification determination; and (2) Be proficient in the use of and use the medical protocols necessary to adequately perform the medical examination required by this section. (d) Any driver authorized to operate a commercial motor vehicle within an exempt intracity zone pursuant to &#xA7; 391.62 of this part shall furnish the examining medical examiner with a copy of the medical findings that led to the issuance of the first certificate of medical examination which allowed the driver to operate a commercial motor vehicle wholly within an exempt intracity zone. (e) [Reserved] (f) The medical examination shall be performed, and its results shall be recorded on the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875, set out in this paragraph (f): (g) Upon completion of the medical examination required by this subpart: (1) The medical examiner must date and sign the Medical Examination Report and provide his or her full name, office address, and telephone number on the Report. (2)(i) Before June 23, 2025, if the medical examiner finds that the person examined is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with &#xA7; 391.41(b), he or she must complete a certificate in the form prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section and furnish the original to the person who was examined. The examiner must provide a copy to a prospective or current employing motor carrier who requests it. (ii) On or after June 23, 2025, if the medical examiner identifies that the person examined will not be operating a commercial motor vehicle that requires a commercial driver's license or a commercial learner's permit and finds that the driver is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with &#xA7; 391.41(b), he or she must complete a certificate in the form prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section and furnish the original to the person who was examined. The examiner must provide a copy to a prospective or current employing motor carrier who requests it. (3) On or after June 23, 2025, if the medical examiner finds that the person examined is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with &#xA7; 391.41(b), he or she must inform the person examined that he or she is not physically qualified, and that this information will be reported to FMCSA. All medical examiner's certificates previously issued to the person are not valid and no longer satisfy the requirements of &#xA7; 391.41(a). (4) Beginning December 22, 2015, if the medical examiner finds that the determination of whether the person examined is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with &#xA7; 391.41(b) should be delayed to receive additional information or to conduct further examination in order for the medical examiner to make such determination, he or she must inform the person examined that the additional information must be provided or the further examination completed within 45 days, and that the pending status of the examination will be reported to FMCSA. (5)(i)(A) Once every calendar month, beginning May 21, 2014 and ending on June 22, 2018, the medical examiner must electronically transmit to FMCSA, via a secure Web account on the National Registry, a completed CMV Driver Medical Examination Results Form, MCSA-5850. The Form must include all information specified for each medical examination conducted during the previous month for any driver who is required to be examined by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners. (B) Beginning June 22, 2018 by midnight (local time) of the next calendar day after the medical examiner completes a medical examination for any driver who is required to be examined by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners, the medical examiner must electronically transmit to FMCSA, via a secure FMCSA-designated website, a completed CMV Driver Medical Examination Results Form, MCSA-5850. The Form must include all information specified for each medical examination conducted for each driver who is required to be examined by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners in accordance with the provisions of this subpart E, and should also include information for each driver who is required by a State to be examined by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners in accordance with the provisions of this subpart and any variances from those provisions adopted by such State. (ii) Beginning on June 22, 2015, if the medical examiner does not perform a medical examination of any driver who is required to be examined by a medical examiner listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners during any calendar month, the medical examiner must report that fact to FMCSA, via a secure FMCSA-designated website, by the close of business on the last day of such month. (h) The medical examiner's certificate shall be completed in accordance with the following Form MCSA-5876, Medical Examiner's Certificate: (i) Each original (paper or electronic) completed Medical Examination Report and a copy or electronic version of each medical examiner's certificate must be retained on file at the office of the medical examiner for at least 3 years from the date of examination. The medical examiner must make all records and information in these files available to an authorized representative of FMCSA or an authorized Federal, State, or local enforcement agency representative, within 48 hours after the request is made. [35 FR 6460, Apr. 22, 1970] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 391.43, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 391.44 Physical qualification standards for an individual who does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both. (a) General. An individual who does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both, in &#xA7; 391.41(b)(10)(i) is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce provided: (1) The individual meets the other physical qualification standards in &#xA7; 391.41 or has an exemption or skill performance evaluation certificate, if required; and (2) The individual has the vision evaluation required by paragraph (b) of this section and the medical examination required by paragraph (c) of this section. (b) Evaluation by an ophthalmologist or optometrist. Prior to the examination required by &#xA7; 391.45 or the expiration of a medical examiner's certificate, the individual must be evaluated by a licensed ophthalmologist or licensed optometrist. (1) During the evaluation of the individual, the ophthalmologist or optometrist must complete the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871. (2) Upon completion of the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871, the ophthalmologist or optometrist must sign and date the Report and provide the ophthalmologist or optometrist's full name, office address, and telephone number on the Report. (c) Examination by a medical examiner. At least annually, an individual who does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both, in &#xA7; 391.41(b)(10)(i) must be medically examined and certified by a medical examiner as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with &#xA7; 391.43. The examination must begin not more than 45 days after an ophthalmologist or optometrist signs and dates the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871. (1) The medical examiner must receive a completed Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871, signed and dated by an ophthalmologist or optometrist for each required examination. This Report shall be treated and retained as part of the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875. (2) The medical examiner must determine whether the individual meets the physical qualification standards in &#xA7; 391.41 to operate a commercial motor vehicle. In making that determination, the medical examiner must consider the information in the Vision Evaluation Report, Form MCSA-5871, signed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist and, utilizing independent medical judgment, apply the following standards in determining whether the individual may be certified as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle. (i) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if, in the better eye, the distant visual acuity is not at least 20/40 (Snellen), with or without corrective lenses, and the field of vision is not at least 70&#xB0; in the horizontal meridian. (ii) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if the individual is not able to recognize the colors of traffic signals and devices showing standard red, green, and amber. (iii) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if the individual's vision deficiency is not stable. (iv) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if sufficient time has not passed since the vision deficiency became stable to allow the individual to adapt to and compensate for the change in vision. (d) Road test. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3), (4), and (5) of this section, an individual physically qualified under this section for the first time shall not drive a commercial motor vehicle until the individual has successfully completed a road test subsequent to physical qualification and has been issued a certificate of driver's road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.31. An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time must inform the motor carrier responsible for completing the road test under &#xA7; 391.31(b) that the individual is required by paragraph (d) of this section to have a road test. The motor carrier must conduct the road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.31(b) thorough (g). (2) For road tests required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the provisions of &#xA7; 391.33 for the equivalent of a road test do not apply. If an individual required to have a road test by paragraph (d)(1) of this section successfully completes the road test and is issued a certificate of driver's road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.31, then any otherwise applicable provisions of &#xA7; 391.33 will apply thereafter to such individual. (3) An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time is not required to complete a road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.31 if the motor carrier responsible for completing the road test under &#xA7; 391.31(b) determines the individual possessed a valid commercial driver's license or non-commercial driver's license to operate, and did operate, a commercial motor vehicle in either intrastate commerce or in interstate commerce excepted by &#xA7; 390.3T(f) of this subchapter or &#xA7; 391.2 from the requirements of this subpart with the vision deficiency for the 3-year period immediately preceding the date of physical qualification under this section for the first time. (i) The individual must certify in writing to the motor carrier the date the vision deficiency began. (ii) If the motor carrier determines the individual possessed a valid commercial driver's license or non-commercial driver's license to operate, and did operate, a commercial motor vehicle in either intrastate commerce or in interstate commerce excepted by either &#xA7; 390.3T(f) of this subchapter or &#xA7; 391.2 from the requirements of this subpart with the vision deficiency for the 3-year period immediately preceding the date of physical qualification in accordance with this section for the first time, the motor carrier must- (A) Prepare a written statement to the effect that the motor carrier determined the individual possessed a valid license and operated a commercial motor vehicle in intrastate or in the specific excepted interstate commerce (as applicable) with the vision deficiency for the 3-year period immediately preceding the date of physical qualification in accordance with this section for the first time and, therefore, is not required by paragraph (d) of this section to complete a road test; (B) Give the individual a copy of the written statement; and (C) Retain in the individual's driver qualification file the original of the written statement and the original, or a copy, of the individual's certification regarding the date the vision deficiency began. (4) An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time is not required to complete a road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.31 if the individual held on March 22, 2022, a valid exemption from the vision standard in &#xA7; 391.41(b)(10)(i) issued by FMCSA under 49 CFR part 381. Such an individual is not required to inform the motor carrier that the individual is excepted from the requirement in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to have a road test. (5) An individual physically qualified under this section for the first time is not required to complete a road test in accordance with &#xA7; 391.31 if the individual was medically certified on March 22, 2022, under the provisions of &#xA7; 391.64(b) for drivers who participated in a previous vision waiver study program. Such an individual is not required to inform the motor carrier that the individual is excepted from the requirement in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to have a road test. [87 FR 3417, Jan. 21, 2022] &#xA7; 391.45 Persons who must be medically examined and certified. The following persons must be medically examined and certified in accordance with &#xA7; 391.43 as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle: (a) Any person who has not been medically examined and certified as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle; (b) Any driver who has not been medically examined and certified as qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle during the preceding 24 months, unless the driver is required to be examined and certified in accordance with paragraph (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), or (h) of this section; (c) Any driver authorized to operate a commercial motor vehicle only within an exempt intracity zone pursuant to &#xA7; 391.62, if such driver has not been medically examined and certified as qualified to drive in such zone during the preceding 12 months; (d) [Reserved] (e) Any driver who has diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control and who has obtained a medical examiner's certificate under the standards in &#xA7; 391.46, if such driver's most recent medical examination and certification as qualified to drive did not occur during the preceding 12 months; (f) Any driver who does not satisfy, with the worse eye, either the distant visual acuity standard with corrective lenses or the field of vision standard, or both, in &#xA7; 391.41(b)(10)(i) and who has obtained a medical examiner's certificate under the standards in &#xA7; 391.44, if such driver's most recent medical examination and certification as qualified to drive did not occur during the preceding 12 months; (g) Any driver whose ability to perform his or her normal duties has been impaired by a physical or mental injury or disease; and (h) On or after June 23, 2025, any person found by a medical examiner not to be physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under the provisions of paragraph (g)(3) of &#xA7; 391.43. [83 FR 47520, Sept. 19, 2018, as amended at 86 FR 32651, June 22, 2021; 87 FR 3419, Jan. 21, 2022; 88 FR 80192, Nov. 17, 2023; 89 FR 90623, Nov. 18, 2024] &#xA7; 391.46 Physical qualification standards for an individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control. (a) Diabetes mellitus treated with insulin. An individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle provided: (1) The individual otherwise meets the physical qualification standards in &#xA7; 391.41 or has an exemption or skill performance evaluation certificate, if required; and (2) The individual has the evaluation required by paragraph (b) and the medical examination required by paragraph (c) of this section. (b) Evaluation by the treating clinician. Prior to the examination required by &#xA7; 391.45 or the expiration of a medical examiner's certificate, the individual must be evaluated by his or her &#x201C;treating clinician.&#x201D; For purposes of this section, &#x201C;treating clinician&#x201D; means a healthcare professional who manages, and prescribes insulin for, the treatment of the individual's diabetes mellitus as authorized by the healthcare professional's State licensing authority. (1) During the evaluation of the individual, the treating clinician must complete the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870. (2) Upon completion of the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, the treating clinician must sign and date the Form and provide his or her full name, office address, and telephone number on the Form. (c) Medical examiner's examination. At least annually, but no later than 45 days after the treating clinician signs and dates the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, an individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control must be medically examined and certified by a medical examiner as physically qualified in accordance with &#xA7; 391.43 and as free of complications from diabetes mellitus that might impair his or her ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely. (1) The medical examiner must receive a completed Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, signed and dated by the individual's treating clinician for each required examination. This Form shall be treated and retained as part of the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875. (2) The medical examiner must determine whether the individual meets the physical qualification standards in &#xA7; 391.41 to operate a commercial motor vehicle. In making that determination, the medical examiner must consider the information in the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, signed by the treating clinician and, utilizing independent medical judgment, apply the following qualification standards in determining whether the individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control may be certified as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle. (i) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if he or she is not maintaining a stable insulin regimen and not properly controlling his or her diabetes mellitus. (ii) The individual is not physically qualified on a permanent basis to operate a commercial motor vehicle if he or she has either severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy or proliferative diabetic retinopathy. (iii) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle up to the maximum 12-month period under &#xA7; 391.45(e) until he or she provides the treating clinician with at least the preceding 3 months of electronic blood glucose self-monitoring records while being treated with insulin that are generated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (iv) The individual who does not provide the treating clinician with at least the preceding 3 months of electronic blood glucose self-monitoring records while being treated with insulin that are generated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle for more than 3 months. If 3 months of compliant electronic blood glucose self-monitoring records are then provided by the individual to the treating clinician and the treating clinician completes a new Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, the medical examiner may issue a medical examiner's certificate that is valid for up to the maximum 12-month period allowed by &#xA7; 391.45(e) and paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. (d) Blood glucose self-monitoring records. Individuals with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control must self-monitor blood glucose in accordance with the specific treatment plan prescribed by the treating clinician. Such individuals must maintain blood glucose records measured with an electronic glucometer that stores all readings, that records the date and time of readings, and from which data can be electronically downloaded. A printout of the electronic blood glucose records or the glucometer must be provided to the treating clinician at the time of any of the evaluations required by this section. (e) S evere hypoglycemic episodes. (1) An individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control who experiences a severe hypoglycemic episode after being certified as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle is prohibited from operating a commercial motor vehicle, and must report such occurrence to and be evaluated by a treating clinician as soon as is reasonably practicable. A severe hypoglycemic episode is one that requires the assistance of others, or results in loss of consciousness, seizure, or coma. The prohibition on operating a commercial motor vehicle continues until a treating clinician: (i) Has determined that the cause of the severe hypoglycemic episode has been addressed; (ii) Has determined that the individual is maintaining a stable insulin regimen and proper control of his or her diabetes mellitus; and (iii) Completes a new Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870. (2) The individual must retain the Form and provide it to the medical examiner at the individual's next medical examination. [83 FR 47520, Sept. 19, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 51434, Sept. 30, 2019] &#xA7; 391.47 Resolution of conflicts of medical evaluation. (a) Applications. Applications for determination of a driver's medical qualifications under standards in this part will only be accepted if they conform to the requirements of this section. (b) Content. Applications will be accepted for consideration only if the following conditions are met. (1) The application must contain the name and address of the driver, motor carrier, and all medical examiners and medical specialists involved in the proceeding. (2) The applicant must submit proof that there is a disagreement between the medical examiner for the driver and the medical examiner for the motor carrier concerning the driver's qualifications. (3) The applicant must submit a copy of an opinion and report including results of all tests of an impartial medical specialist in the field in which the medical conflict arose. The specialist should be one agreed to by the motor carrier and the driver. (i) In cases where the driver refuses to agree on a specialist and the applicant is the motor carrier, the applicant must submit a statement of his/her agreement to submit the matter to an impartial medical specialist in the field, proof that he/she has requested the driver to submit to the medical specialist, and the response, if any, of the driver to his/her request. (ii) In cases where the motor carrier refuses to agree on a medical specialist, the driver must submit an opinion and test results of an impartial medical specialist, proof that he/she has requested the motor carrier to agree to submit the matter to the medical specialist and the response, if any, of the motor carrier to his/her request. (4) The applicant must include a statement explaining in detail why the decision of the medical specialist identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, is unacceptable. (5) The applicant must submit proof that the medical specialist mentioned in paragraph (b)(3) of this section was provided, prior to his/her determination, the medical history of the driver and an agreed-upon statement of the work the driver performs. (6) The applicant must submit the medical history and statement of work provided to the medical specialist under paragraph (b)(5) of this section. (7) The applicant must submit all medical records and statements of the medical examiners and medical specialists who have given opinions on the driver's qualifications. (8) The applicant must submit a description and a copy of all written and documentary evidence upon which the party making application relies in the form set out in 49 CFR 386.37. (9) The application must be accompanied by a statement of the driver that he/she intends to drive in interstate commerce not subject to the commercial zone exemption or a statement of the carrier that he/she has used or intends to use the driver for such work. (10) The applicant must submit three copies of the application and all records. (c) Information. FMCSA may request further information from the applicant if he/she determines that a decision cannot be made on the evidence submitted. If the applicant fails to submit the information requested, FMCSA may refuse to issue a determination. (d)(1) Action. Upon receiving a satisfactory application FMCSA shall notify the parties (the driver, motor carrier, or any other interested party) that the application has been accepted and that a determination will be made. A copy of all evidence received shall be attached to the notice. (2) Reply. Any party may submit a reply to the notification within 15 days after service. Such reply must be accompanied by all evidence the party wants FMCSA to consider in making his/her determination. Evidence submitted should include all medical records and test results upon which the party relies. (3) Parties. A party for the purposes of this section includes the motor carrier and the driver, or anyone else submitting an application. (e) Petitions to review, burden of proof. The driver or motor carrier may petition to review the FMCSA's determination. Such petition must be submitted in accordance with &#xA7; 386.13(a) of this chapter. The burden of proof in such a proceeding is on the petitioner. (f) Status of driver. Once an application is submitted to FMCSA, the driver shall be deemed disqualified until such time as FMCSA makes a determination, or until FMCSA orders otherwise. [42 FR 18081, Apr. 5, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 53966, Oct. 4, 1977; 60 FR 38746, July 28, 1995; 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 78 FR 58483, Sept. 24, 2013; 80 FR 59075, Oct. 1, 2015; 86 FR 57074, Oct. 14, 2021; 88 FR 80192, Nov. 17, 2023] &#xA7; 391.49 Alternative physical qualification standards for the loss or impairment of limbs. (a) A person who is not physically qualified to drive under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(1) or (2) and who is otherwise qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle, may drive a commercial motor vehicle if FMCSA has granted a Skill Performance Evaluation (SPE) Certificate to that person. (b)(1) Application. A letter of application for an SPE certificate may be submitted jointly by the person (driver applicant) who seeks an SPE certificate and by the motor carrier that will employ the driver applicant, if the application is accepted. (2) Application address. The application must be addressed to the SPE Certificate Program at the applicable FMCSA service center for the State in which the co-applicant motor carrier's principal place of business is located. The address of each, and the States serviced, are listed in &#xA7; 390.27 of this chapter. (3) Exception. A letter of application for an SPE certificate may be submitted unilaterally by a driver applicant. The application must be addressed to the field service center, FMCSA, for the State in which the driver has legal residence. The driver applicant must comply with all the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section except those in (c)(1)(i) and (iii). The driver applicant shall respond to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) to (v) of this section, if the information is known. (c) A letter of application for an SPE certificate shall contain: (1) Identification of the applicant(s): (i) Name and complete address of the motor carrier co-applicant; (ii) Name and complete address of the driver applicant; (iii) The U.S. DOT Motor Carrier Identification Number, if known; and (iv) A description of the driver applicant's limb impairment for which SPE certificate is requested. (2) Description of the type of operation the driver will be employed to perform: (i) State(s) in which the driver will operate for the motor carrier co-applicant (if more than 10 States, designate general geographic area only); (ii) Average period of time the driver will be driving and/or on duty, per day; (iii) Type of commodities or cargo to be transported; (iv) Type of driver operation ( i.e., sleeper team, relay, owner operator, etc.); and (v) Number of years experience operating the type of commercial motor vehicle(s) requested in the letter of application and total years of experience operating all types of commercial motor vehicles. (3) Description of the commercial motor vehicle(s) the driver applicant intends to drive: (i) Truck, truck tractor, or bus make, model, and year (if known); (ii) Drive train; (A) Transmission type (automatic or manual-if manual, designate number of forward speeds); (B) Auxiliary transmission (if any) and number of forward speeds; and (C) Rear axle (designate single speed, 2 speed, or 3 speed). (iii) Type of brake system; (iv) Steering, manual or power assisted; (v) Description of type of trailer(s) ( i.e., van, flatbed, cargo tank, drop frame, lowboy, or pole); (vi) Number of semitrailers or full trailers to be towed at one time; (vii) For commercial motor vehicles designed to transport passengers, indicate the seating capacity of commercial motor vehicle; and (viii) Description of any modification(s) made to the commercial motor vehicle for the driver applicant; attach photograph(s) where applicable. (4) Otherwise qualified: (i) The co-applicant motor carrier must certify that the driver applicant is otherwise qualified under the regulations of this part; (ii) In the case of a unilateral application, the driver applicant must certify that he/she is otherwise qualified under the regulations of this part. (5) Signature of applicant(s): (i) Driver applicant's signature and date signed; (ii) Motor carrier official's signature (if application has a co-applicant), title, and date signed. Depending upon the motor carrier's organizational structure (corporation, partnership, or proprietorship), the signer of the application shall be an officer, partner, or the proprietor. (d) The letter of application for an SPE certificate shall be accompanied by: (1) A copy of the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875, documenting the results of the medical examination performed pursuant to &#xA7; 391.43; (2) A copy of the Medical Examiner's Certificate, Form MCSA-5876, completed pursuant to &#xA7; 391.43(h); (3) A medical evaluation summary completed by either a board qualified or board certified physiatrist (doctor of physical medicine) or orthopedic surgeon. The co-applicant motor carrier or the driver applicant shall provide the physiatrist or orthopedic surgeon with a description of the job-related tasks the driver applicant will be required to perform; (i) The medical evaluation summary for a driver applicant disqualified under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(1) shall include: (A) An assessment of the functional capabilities of the driver as they relate to the ability of the driver to perform normal tasks associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle; and (B) A statement by the examiner that the applicant is capable of demonstrating precision prehension ( e.g., grasping and manipulating knobs and switches using the fingers/thumb) and power grasp prehension ( e.g., grasping, holding, and maneuvering the steering wheel using a hand) with each hand separately. Prior to applying for an SPE certificate, an applicant with loss of a hand or arm must be fitted and proficient with a proper prosthesis that enables the applicant to demonstrate precision prehension and power grasp prehension with each hand separately. This requirement does not apply to an individual who was granted a waiver, absent a prosthetic device, prior to January 6, 1986, the effective date of the requirement. (ii) The medical evaluation summary for a driver applicant disqualified under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(2) shall include: (A) An explanation as to how and why the impairment interferes with the ability of the applicant to perform normal tasks associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle; (B) An assessment and medical opinion of whether the condition will likely remain medically stable over the lifetime of the driver applicant; and (C) A statement by the examiner that the applicant is capable of demonstrating precision prehension ( e.g., grasping and manipulating knobs and switches using the fingers/thumb) and power grasp prehension ( e.g., grasping, holding, and maneuvering the steering wheel using a hand) with each hand separately. Prior to applying for an SPE certificate, an applicant with upper limb impairment must be fitted and proficient with a proper prosthesis or orthotic device, if the applicant is not capable of demonstrating precision prehension and power grasp prehension with each hand separately without a prosthesis or orthotic device. This requirement does not apply to an individual who was granted a waiver, absent an orthotic device, prior to January 6, 1986, the effective date of the requirement. (4) A description of the driver applicant's prosthetic or orthotic device worn, if any; (5) Road test: (i) A copy of the driver applicant's road test administered by the motor carrier co-applicant and the certificate issued pursuant to &#xA7; 391.31(b) through (g); or (ii) A unilateral applicant shall be responsible for having a road test administered by a motor carrier or a person who is competent to administer the test and evaluate its results. (6) Application for employment: (i) A copy of the driver applicant's application for employment completed pursuant to &#xA7; 391.21; or (ii) A unilateral applicant shall be responsible for submitting a copy of the last commercial driving position's employment application he/she held. If not previously employed as a commercial driver, so state. (7) A copy of the driver applicant's SPE certificate of certain physical defects issued by the individual State(s), where applicable; and (8) A copy of the driver applicant's State Motor Vehicle Driving Record for the past 3 years from each State in which a motor vehicle driver's license or permit has been obtained. (e) A motor carrier that employs a driver with an SPE certificate agrees to: (1) File promptly (within 30 days of the involved incident) with the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, such documents and information as may be required about driving activities, accidents, arrests, license suspensions, revocations, or withdrawals, and convictions which involve the driver applicant. This paragraph (e)(1) applies whether the driver SPE certificate is a unilateral one or has a co-applicant motor carrier; (i) A motor carrier who is a co-applicant must file the required documents with the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the carrier's principal place of business is located; or (ii) A motor carrier who employs a driver who has been issued a unilateral SPE certificate must file the required documents with the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the driver has legal residence. (2) Evaluate the driver with a road test using the trailer the motor carrier intends the driver to transport or, in lieu of, accept a certificate of a trailer road test from another motor carrier if the trailer type(s) is similar, or accept the trailer road test done during the Skill Performance Evaluation if it is a similar trailer type(s) to that of the prospective motor carrier. Job tasks, as stated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, are not evaluated in the Skill Performance Evaluation; (3) Evaluate the driver for those nondriving safety related job tasks associated with whatever type of trailer(s) will be used and any other nondriving safety related or job related tasks unique to the operations of the employing motor carrier; and (4) Use the driver to operate the type of commercial motor vehicle defined in the SPE certificate only when the driver is in compliance with the conditions and limitations of the SPE certificate. (f) The driver shall supply each employing motor carrier with a copy of the SPE certificate. (g) FMCSA may require the driver applicant to demonstrate his or her ability to safely operate the commercial motor vehicle(s) the driver intends to drive to an agent of FMCSA. The SPE certificate form will identify the power unit (bus, truck, truck tractor) for which the SPE certificate has been granted. The SPE certificate forms will also identify the trailer type used in the Skill Performance Evaluation; however, the SPE certificate is not limited to that specific trailer type. A driver may use the SPE certificate with other trailer types if a successful trailer road test is completed in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Job tasks, as stated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, are not evaluated during the Skill Performance Evaluation. (h) FMCSA may deny the application for SPE certificate or may grant it totally or in part and issue the SPE certificate subject to such terms, conditions, and limitations as deemed consistent with the public interest. The SPE certificate is valid for a period not to exceed 2 years from date of issue, and may be renewed 30 days prior to the expiration date. (i) The SPE certificate renewal application shall be submitted to the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the driver has legal residence, if the SPE certificate was issued unilaterally. If the SPE certificate has a co-applicant, then the renewal application is submitted to the SPE Certificate Program, FMCSA service center, for the State in which the co-applicant motor carrier's principal place of business is located. The SPE certificate renewal application shall contain the following: (1) Name and complete address of motor carrier currently employing the applicant; (2) Name and complete address of the driver; (3) Effective date of the current SPE certificate; (4) Expiration date of the current SPE certificate; (5) Total miles driven under the current SPE certificate; (6) Number of accidents incurred while driving under the current SPE certificate, including date of the accident(s), number of fatalities, number of injuries, and the estimated dollar amount of property damage; (7) A current Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875; (8) A medical evaluation summary pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, if an unstable medical condition exists. All handicapped conditions classified under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(1) are considered unstable. Refer to paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section for the condition under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(2) which may be considered medically stable. (9) A copy of driver's current State motor vehicle driving record for the period of time the current SPE certificate has been in effect; (10) Notification of any change in the type of tractor the driver will operate; (11) Driver's signature and date signed; and (12) Motor carrier coapplicant's signature and date signed. (j)(1) Upon granting an SPE certificate, FMCSA will notify the driver applicant and co-applicant motor carrier (if applicable) by letter. The terms, conditions, and limitations of the SPE certificate will be set forth. A motor carrier shall maintain a copy of the SPE certificate in its driver qualification file. A copy of the SPE certificate shall be retained in the motor carrier's file for a period of 3 years after the driver's employment is terminated. The driver applicant shall have the SPE certificate (or a legible copy) in his/her possession whenever on duty. (2) Upon successful completion of the skill performance evaluation, FMCSA must notify the driver by letter and enclose an SPE certificate substantially in the following form: Skill Performance Evaluation Certificate Name of Issuing Agency: Agency Address: Telephone Number: ( ) Issued Under 49 CFR 391.49, subchapter B of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations Driver's Name: Effective Date: SSN: DOB: Expiration Date: Address: Driver Disability: Check One: ______New ______Renewal Driver's License: (State) (Number) In accordance with 49 CFR 391.49, subchapter B of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSRs), the driver application for a skill performance evaluation (SPE) certificate is hereby granted authorizing the above-named driver to operate in interstate or foreign commerce under the provisions set forth below. This certificate is granted for the period shown above, not to exceed 2 years, subject to periodic review as may be found necessary. This certificate may be renewed upon submission of a renewal application. Continuation of this certificate is dependent upon strict adherence by the above-named driver to the provisions set forth below and compliance with the FMCSRs. Any failure to comply with provisions herein may be cause for cancellation. CONDITIONS: As a condition of this certificate, reports of all accidents, arrests, suspensions, revocations, withdrawals of driver licenses or permits, and convictions involving the above-named driver shall be reported in writing to the Issuing Agency by the EMPLOYING MOTOR CARRIER within 30 days after occurrence. LIMITATIONS: 1. Vehicle Type (power unit):* 2. Vehicle modification(s): 3. Prosthetic or Orthotic device(s) (Required to be Worn While Driving): 4. Additional Provision(s): NOTICE: To all MOTOR CARRIERS employing a driver with an SPE certificate. This certificate is granted for the operation of the power unit only. It is the responsibility of the employing motor carrier to evaluate the driver with a road test using the trailer type(s) the motor carrier intends the driver to transport, or in lieu of, accept the trailer road test done during the SPE if it is a similar trailer type(s) to that of the prospective motor carrier. Also, it is the responsibility of the employing motor carrier to evaluate the driver for those non-driving safety-related job tasks associated with the type of trailer(s) utilized, as well as, any other non-driving safety-related or job-related tasks unique to the operations of the employing motor carrier. The SPE of the above-named driver was given by an SPE Evaluator. It was successfully completed utilizing the above-named power unit and ________ (trailer, if applicable) The tractor or truck had a ________ transmission. Please read the NOTICE paragraph above. Name: Signature: Title: Date: (k) FMCSA may revoke an SPE certificate after the person to whom it was issued is given notice of the proposed revocation and has been allowed a reasonable opportunity to appeal. (l) Falsifying information in the letter of application, the renewal application, or falsifying information required by this section by either the applicant or motor carrier is prohibited. [65 FR 25287, May 1, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 59380, Oct. 5, 2000; 67 FR 61824, Oct. 2, 2002; 78 FR 58483, Sept. 24, 2013; 86 FR 57075, Oct. 14, 2021; 89 FR 90623, Nov. 18, 2024] Subpart F-Files and Records &#xA7; 391.51 General requirements for driver qualification files. (a) Each motor carrier shall maintain a driver qualification file for each driver it employs. A driver's qualification file may be combined with his/her personnel file. (b) The qualification file for a driver must include: (1) The driver's application for employment completed in accordance with &#xA7; 391.21; (2) A copy of the motor vehicle record received from each driver's licensing authority pursuant to &#xA7; 391.23(a)(1); (3) The certificate of driver's road test issued to the driver pursuant to &#xA7; 391.31(e), a copy of the license or certificate which the motor carrier accepted as equivalent to the driver's road test pursuant to &#xA7; 391.33, or the original of the written statement providing that the motor carrier determined the driver is not required by &#xA7; 391.44(d) to complete a road test pursuant to &#xA7; 391.44(d)(3)(ii)(A) and the original, or a copy, of the driver's certification required by &#xA7; 391.44(d)(3)(i); (4) The motor vehicle record received from each driver's licensing authority to the annual driver record inquiry required by &#xA7; 391.25(a); (5) A note relating to the annual review of the driver's driving record as required by &#xA7; 391.25(c)(2); (6)(i) The medical examiner's certificate as required by &#xA7; 391.43(g) or a legible copy of the certificate. (ii) For CDL holders, beginning January 30, 2012, if the CDLIS motor vehicle record contains medical certification status information, the motor carrier employer must meet this requirement by obtaining the CDLIS motor vehicle record defined at &#xA7; 384.105 of this chapter. That record must be obtained from the current licensing State and placed in the driver qualification file. After January 30, 2015, a non-excepted, interstate CDL holder without medical certification status information on the CDLIS motor vehicle record is designated &#x201C;not-certified&#x201D; to operate a CMV in interstate commerce. After January 30, 2015, and through June 22, 2025, a motor carrier may use a copy of the driver's current medical examiner's certificate that was submitted to the State for up to 15 days from the date it was issued as proof of medical certification. (iii) If that driver obtained the medical certification based on having obtained a medical variance from FMCSA, the motor carrier must also include a copy of the medical variance documentation in the driver qualification file in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section; (7) A Skill Performance Evaluation Certificate issued by FMCSA in accordance with &#xA7; 391.49; or the Medical Exemption document issued by a Federal medical program in accordance with part 381 of this chapter; and (8)(i) For drivers not required to have a CDL, a note relating to verification of medical examiner listing on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners required by &#xA7; 391.23(m)(1). (ii) Through June 22, 2025, for drivers required to have a CDL, a note relating to verification of medical examiner listing on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners required by &#xA7; 391.23(m)(2). (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each driver's qualification file shall be retained for as long as a driver is employed by that motor carrier and for three years thereafter. (d) The following records may be removed from a driver's qualification file three years after the date of execution: (1) The motor vehicle record received from each driver's licensing authority to the annual driver record inquiry required by &#xA7; 391.25(a); (2) The note relating to the annual review of the driver's driving record as required by &#xA7; 391.25(c)(2); (3) The medical examiner's certificate required by &#xA7; 391.43(g), a legible copy of the certificate, or, for CDL drivers, any CDLIS MVR obtained as required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section; (4) Any medical variance issued by FMCSA, including a Skill Performance Evaluation Certificate issued in accordance with &#xA7; 391.49; or the Medical Exemption letter issued by a Federal medical program in accordance with part 381 of this chapter; and (5) The note relating to verification of medical examiner listing on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners required by &#xA7; 391.23(m). (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2126-004) [63 FR 33277, June 18, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 49874, Oct. 1, 2001; 69 FR 16721, Mar. 30, 2004; 73 FR 73127, Dec. 1, 2008; 75 FR 28502, May 21, 2010; 77 FR 24133, Apr. 20, 2012; 79 FR 2380, Jan. 14, 2014; 80 FR 22822, Apr. 23, 2015; 83 FR 28782, June 21, 2018; 84 FR 51434, Sept. 30, 2019; 86 FR 32651, June 22, 2021; 86 FR 57076, Oct. 14, 2021; 87 FR 3419, Jan. 21, 2022; 87 FR 13209, Mar. 9, 2022] &#xA7; 391.53 Driver investigation history file. (a) Each motor carrier must maintain records relating to the investigation into the safety performance history of a new or prospective driver pursuant to &#xA7; 391.23(d) and (e). This file must be maintained in a secure location with controlled access. (1) The motor carrier must ensure that access to this data is limited to those who are involved in the hiring decision or who control access to the data. In addition, the motor carrier's insurer may have access to the data, except the alcohol and controlled substances data. (2) This data must only be used for the hiring decision. (b) The file must include: (1) A copy of the driver's written authorization for the motor carrier to seek information about a driver's alcohol and controlled substances history as required under &#xA7; 391.23(f)(1). (2) A copy of the response(s) received for investigations required by paragraphs (d) and (e) of &#xA7; 391.23 from each previous employer, or documentation of good faith efforts to contact them. The record must include the previous employer's name and address, the date the previous employer was contacted, and the information received about the driver from the previous employer. Failures to contact a previous employer, or of them to provide the required safety performance history information, must be documented. (c) The safety performance histories received from previous employers for a driver who is hired must be retained for as long as the driver is employed by that motor carrier and for three years thereafter. (d) A motor carrier must make all records and information in this file available to an authorized representative or special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an authorized State or local enforcement agency representative, or an authorized third party, upon request or as part of any inquiry within the time period specified by the requesting representative. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2126-004) [69 FR 16721, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 84 FR 51434, Sept. 30, 2019] &#xA7; 391.55 LCV Driver-Instructor qualification files. (a) Each motor carrier must maintain a qualification file for each LCV driver-instructor it employs or uses. The LCV driver-instructor qualification file may be combined with his/her personnel file. (b) The LCV driver-instructor qualification file must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section for a skills instructor or the information in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for a classroom instructor, as follows: (1) Evidence that the instructor has met the requirements of 49 CFR 380.301 or 380.303; (2) A copy of the individual's currently valid CDL with the appropriate endorsements. [69 FR 16738, Mar. 30, 2004; 69 FR 28846, May 19, 2004; 83 FR 16227, Apr. 16, 2018] Subpart G-Limited Exemptions &#xA7; 391.61 Drivers who were regularly employed before January 1, 1971. The provisions of &#xA7;&#xA7; 391.21 (relating to applications for employment), 391.23 (relating to investigations and inquiries), and 391.31 (relating to road tests) do not apply to a driver who has been a single-employer driver (as defined in &#xA7; 390.5 of this subchapter) of a motor carrier for a continuous period which began before January 1, 1971, as long as he/she continues to be a single-employer driver of that motor carrier. [86 FR 57076, Oct. 14, 2021] &#xA7; 391.62 Limited exemptions for intracity zone drivers. The provisions of &#xA7;&#xA7; 391.11(b)(1) and 391.41(b)(1) through (b)(11) do not apply to a person who: (a) Was otherwise qualified to operate and operated a commercial motor vehicle in a municipality or exempt intracity zone thereof throughout the one-year period ending November 18, 1988; (b) Meets all the other requirements of this section; (c) Operates wholly within the exempt intracity zone (as defined in 49 CFR 390.5); (d) Does not operate a vehicle used in the transportation of hazardous materials in a quantity requiring placarding under regulations issued by the Secretary under 49 U.S.C. chapter 51.; and (e) Has a medical or physical condition which: (1) Would have prevented such person from operating a commercial motor vehicle under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations contained in this subchapter; (2) Existed on July 1, 1988, or at the time of the first required physical examination after that date; and (3) The examining physician has determined this condition has not substantially worsened since July 1, 1988, or at the time of the first required physical examination after that date. [61 FR 13346, Mar. 26, 1996; 61 FR 17253, Apr. 19, 1996] &#xA7; 391.63 Multiple-employer drivers. (a) If a motor carrier employs a person as a multiple-employer driver (as defined in &#xA7; 390.5 of this subchapter), the motor carrier shall comply with all requirements of this part, except that the motor carrier need not- (1) Require the person to furnish an application for employment in accordance with &#xA7; 391.21; (2) Make the investigations and inquiries specified in &#xA7; 391.23 with respect to that person; (3) Perform the annual driving record inquiry required by &#xA7; 391.25(a); or (4) Perform the annual review of the person's driving record required by &#xA7; 391.25(b). (b) Before a motor carrier permits a multiple-employer driver to drive a commercial motor vehicle, the motor carrier must obtain the driver's name, the driver's social security number, and the identification number, type, and issuing driver's licensing authority of the driver's commercial motor vehicle operator's license. The motor carrier must maintain this information for three years after employment of the multiple-employer driver ceases. [63 FR 33278, June 18, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 59457, Oct. 2, 2014; 87 FR 13209, Mar. 9, 2022] &#xA7; 391.64 Grandfathering for certain drivers who participated in a vision waiver study program. (a) [Reserved] (b) Until March 22, 2023, the provisions of &#xA7; 391.41(b)(10) do not apply to a driver who was a participant in good standing on March 31, 1996, in a waiver study program concerning the operation of commercial motor vehicles by drivers with visual impairment in one eye; provided: (1) The driver is physically examined every year, including an examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist attesting to the fact that the driver: (i) Is otherwise qualified under &#xA7; 391.41; and (ii) Continues to measure at least 20/40 (Snellen) in the better eye. (2) The driver provides a copy of the ophthalmologist or optometrist report to the medical examiner at the time of the annual medical examination. (3) The driver provides a copy of the annual medical certification to the employer for retention in the driver's qualification file and retains a copy of the certification on his/her person while driving for presentation to a duly authorized federal, state or local enforcement official. (4) On March 22, 2023, the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section are no longer in effect, and any medical examiner's certificate issued under &#xA7; 391.43 on the basis that the driver is qualified by operation of the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, related to drivers with visual impairment in one eye, is void. [61 FR 13346, Mar. 26, 1996, as amended at 83 FR 47521, Sept. 19, 2018; 87 FR 3419, Jan. 21, 2022; 87 FR 7756, Feb. 10, 2022] &#xA7; 391.65 Drivers furnished by other motor carriers. (a) A motor carrier may employ a driver who is not a single-employer driver, as defined in &#xA7; 390.5, of that motor carrier without complying with the generally applicable driver qualification file requirements in this part, if- (1) The driver is a single-employer driver for another motor carrier; and (2) That other motor carrier certifies that the driver is fully qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle in a written statement which- (i) Is signed and dated by an officer or authorized employee of the motor carrier that employs the single-employer driver; (ii) Contains the driver's name and signature; (iii) Certifies that the driver has been employed as a single-employer driver. (iv) Certifies that the driver is fully qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle under the rules in part 391 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations; (v) States the expiration date of the driver's medical examiner's certificate; (vi) Specifies an expiration date for the certificate, which shall be not longer than 2 years or, if earlier, the expiration date of the driver's current medical examiner's certificate; and (vii) Is substantially in accordance with the following form: ____________________(Name of driver) ____________________(SS No.) ____________________(Signature of driver) I certify that the above named driver, as defined in &#xA7; 390.5, is a single-employer driver driving a commercial motor vehicle operated by the below named carrier and is fully qualified under part 391, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations. His/her current medical examiner's certificate expires on ______(Date). This certificate expires: (Date not later than expiration date of medical certificate) Issued on______(date) Issued by__________ (Name of carrier) (Address) (Signature) (Title) (b) A motor carrier that obtains a certificate in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall: (1) Contact the motor carrier which certified the driver's qualifications under this section to verify the validity of the certificate. This contact may be made in person, by telephone, or by letter. (2) Retain a copy of that certificate in its files for three years. (c) A motor carrier which certifies a driver's qualifications under this section shall be responsible for the accuracy of the certificate. The certificate is no longer valid if the driver leaves the employment of the motor carrier which issued the certificate or is no longer qualified under the rules in this part. [41 FR 36656, Aug. 31, 1976, as amended at 53 FR 18057, May 19, 1988; 60 FR 38745, July 28, 1995; 63 FR 33278, June 18, 1998; 67 FR 61824, Oct. 2, 2002; 78 FR 58483, Sept. 24, 2013] &#xA7; 391.67 Farm vehicle drivers of articulated commercial motor vehicles. The following rules in this part do not apply to a farm vehicle driver (as defined in &#xA7; 390.5 of this subchapter) who is 18 years of age or older and who drives an articulated commercial motor vehicle: (a) Section 391.11(b)(1) and (7) (relating to general qualifications of drivers); (b) Subpart C (relating to disclosure of, investigation into, and inquiries about the background, character, and driving record of drivers); (c) Subpart D (relating to road tests); and (d) Subpart F (relating to maintenance of files and records). [63 FR 33278, June 18, 1998, as amended at 87 FR 13209, Mar. 9, 2022] &#xA7; 391.68 Private motor carrier of passengers (nonbusiness). The following rules in this part do not apply to a private motor carrier of passengers (nonbusiness) and its drivers: (a) Section 391.11(b)(1) and (7) (relating to general qualifications of drivers); (b) Subpart C (relating to disclosure of, investigation into, and inquiries about the background, character, and driving record of, drivers); (c) So much of &#xA7;&#xA7; 391.41 and 391.45 as require a driver to be medically examined and to have a medical examiner's certificate on his/her person; and (d) Subpart F (relating to maintenance of files and records). [63 FR 33278, June 18, 1998, as amended at 87 FR 13209, Mar. 9, 2022] &#xA7; 391.69 Private motor carrier of passengers (business). The provisions of &#xA7; 391.21 (relating to applications for employment), &#xA7; 391.23 (relating to investigations and inquiries), and &#xA7; 391.31 (relating to road tests) do not apply to a driver who was a single-employer driver (as defined in &#xA7; 390.5 of this subchapter) of a private motor carrier of passengers (business) as of July 1, 1994, so long as the driver continues to be a single-employer driver of that motor carrier. [63 FR 33278, June 18, 1998] &#xA7; 391.71 [Reserved] Appendix A to Part 391-Medical Advisory Criteria I. Introduction This appendix contains the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's recommendations and guidance in the form of Medical Advisory Criteria to help medical examiners assess a driver's physical qualification. These recommendations and guidance are strictly advisory and do not have the force and effect of law. They were established after consideration of public comments and after consideration of recommendations from the Agency's Medical Review Board. II. Interpretation of Medical Standards Since the issuance of the regulations for physical qualifications of commercial motor vehicle drivers, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has published recommendations and guidance called advisory criteria to help medical examiners in determining whether a driver meets the physical qualification standards for commercial driving. These recommendations have been derived from the Medical Examiner's Handbook to provide information to medical examiners that is directly relevant to the physical qualification examination. A. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(1) 1. Only individuals with loss of all five fingers are considered to have loss of a hand under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(1). 2. Unless an individual possesses a skill performance evaluation certificate, loss of a foot, a leg, a hand, or an arm precludes physical qualification. Even if an individual has a prosthesis that replaces the foot, leg, hand, or arm, as applicable, certification is precluded without a skill performance evaluation certificate. 3. An individual may be eligible for a skill performance evaluation certificate under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(1) or &#xA7; 391.41(b)(2), or both. B. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(2) 1. Individuals with loss of fewer than all five fingers or any number of toes should be evaluated under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(2) to determine whether there is an impairment, defect, or limitation of a hand or foot that interferes with the ability to perform normal tasks associated with operating a commercial motor vehicle. 2. A skill performance evaluation certificate is only available under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(2) for impairment, defect, or limitation of a limb. A skill performance evaluation certificate is not available for impairment of the spine or torso that does not result in impairment, defect, or limitation of a limb. 3. An individual may be eligible for a skill performance evaluation certificate under &#xA7; 391.41(b)(1) or &#xA7; 391.41(b)(2), or both. C. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(4) 1. The phrase &#x201C;has no current clinical diagnosis of&#x201D; is specifically designed to encompass a clinical diagnosis of a current cardiovascular condition, or a cardiovascular condition that has not fully stabilized. The phrase &#x201C;known to be accompanied by&#x201D; is designed to include a clinical diagnosis of a cardiovascular disease that is accompanied by, or is likely to cause, symptoms of syncope, dyspnea, collapse, or congestive cardiac failure. 2. Coronary artery bypass surgery and pacemaker implantation are remedial procedures and, thus, do not preclude medical certification. Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators are installed to address an ongoing underlying cardiovascular condition and are likely to cause syncope or collapse as a result of the underlying cardiovascular condition, as well as when they discharge. 3. Anticoagulation therapy is a medical treatment, which can improve the health and safety of the individual, and should not, by its use alone, preclude certification of the individual. The emphasis should be on the underlying medical condition(s) that requires treatment and the general health of the individual. D. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(5) 1. Many conditions interfere with oxygen exchange and may interfere with the ability to control and drive a commercial motor vehicle safely. These include, but are not limited to, emphysema, chronic asthma, carcinoma, tuberculosis, chronic bronchitis, and obstructive sleep apnea. 2. If the medical examiner detects a possible undiagnosed or inadequately treated respiratory dysfunction that may be likely to interfere with the individual's ability to control and drive a commercial motor vehicle safely, the medical examiner should confer with the treating provider or should recommend that the individual be referred to a specialist for further evaluation and therapy. E. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(6) 1. An elevated blood pressure finding should be confirmed by at least two subsequent measurements. 2. Hypertension alone is unlikely to interfere with the ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely; however, the likelihood increases when target organ damage, particularly cerebral vascular disease, is present. The guidance on the stages of hypertension below is based on the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's Cardiovascular Advisory Panel Guidelines for the Medical Examination of Commercial Motor Vehicle Drivers (October 2002), which adopted the sixth report of the Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (1997). 3. Stage 1 hypertension corresponds to a systolic blood pressure of 140-159 mmHg and/or a diastolic blood pressure of 90-99 mmHg. An individual with a blood pressure in this range is at low risk for a hypertension-related event that is likely to interfere with the ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely and may be medically certified to drive for a 1-year period. Certification examinations should be done annually thereafter and should be at or less than 140/90. If less than 160/100 but greater than 140/90 at the subsequent examinations, the individual may be given a one-time certification of 3 months to reduce the blood pressure to less than or equal to 140/90. 4. A blood pressure of 160-179 systolic and/or 100-109 diastolic is considered Stage 2 hypertension. A blood pressure in this range is an absolute indication for antihypertensive drug therapy. The individual may be given a one-time certification of 3 months to initiate or adjust antihypertensive drug therapy and to reduce the blood pressure to less than or equal to 140/90. Provided treatment is well tolerated and the driver demonstrates a blood pressure value of 140/90 or less, the individual may be certified for 1 year. 5. A blood pressure at or greater than 180 (systolic) and 110 (diastolic) is considered Stage 3 and carries a high risk for an acute blood pressure-related event that is likely to interfere with the ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely. The individual should not be qualified, even for a short period, until the blood pressure is reduced to 140/90 or less and treatment is well tolerated. The individual may be certified for 6 months and biannually (every 6 months) thereafter if at recheck blood pressure is 140/90 or less. 6. Annual certification is recommended if the medical examiner does not know the severity of hypertension prior to treatment. 7. Treatment includes non-pharmacologic and pharmacologic modalities as well as counseling to improve or eliminate the factors that contributed to the hypertension. Most antihypertensive medications also have side effects, such as somnolence or syncope. The importance of side effects must be evaluated on an individual basis and considering the underlying hypertension. Individuals should be alerted to the possibility that antihypertensive medications may interfere with the ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely. 8. Medical certification for secondary hypertension is based on the above stages. Evaluation is warranted if an individual is persistently hypertensive on maximal or near-maximal doses of two to three pharmacologic agents. Some causes of secondary hypertension may be amenable to surgical intervention or specific pharmacologic treatment. F. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(7) 1. Once an individual has been diagnosed as having a rheumatic, arthritic, orthopedic, muscular, neuromuscular, or vascular disease, then the individual has an established history of that disease. 2. The medical examiner, when examining an individual, should consider the following: the nature and severity of the individual's condition (such as sensory loss or loss of strength); the degree of limitation present (such as range of motion); the rate or stage of progression (symptoms may not be present initially but may manifest over time); and whether symptoms are likely to interfere with the ability to control and operate a commercial motor vehicle safely. 3. If severe functional impairment exists, the individual does not physically qualify. In cases where more frequent monitoring is required, a Medical Examiner's Certificate, Form MCSA-5876, for less than the maximum certification period may be issued. G. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(8) 1. Epilepsy is a chronic functional disease characterized by seizures or episodes that usually occur without warning, resulting in loss of voluntary control that may lead to loss of consciousness. Therefore, the following individuals are not physically qualified: &#x2022; An individual who has a medical history of epilepsy or a seizure disorder, unless the individual satisfies the criteria described in paragraph 5 of the Medical Advisory Criteria for &#xA7; 391.41(b)(8); &#x2022; An individual who has a current clinical diagnosis of epilepsy or a seizure disorder; or &#x2022; An individual who is taking antiseizure medication to prevent seizures. 2. When an individual has had a single unprovoked episode of loss of consciousness ( i.e., the cause is unknown or there is no clear provoking trigger) that is determined not to have been a seizure, the medical examiner may certify the individual if the medical examiner determines recurrence of loss of consciousness or loss of ability to control a commercial motor vehicle is unlikely and the individual is not taking antiseizure medication. The determination should be made on an individual basis by the medical examiner in consultation with the treating provider. Before certification is considered, it is recommended that a 6-month waiting period elapse from the time of the episode. 3. When an individual has had a single unprovoked nonepileptic seizure ( i.e., the cause is unknown or there is no clear provoking trigger) that was treated with antiseizure medication or left untreated, the medical examiner may certify the individual if the individual is both off antiseizure medication and seizure free for 5 years of more. 4. When an individual has had a single provoked nonepileptic seizure or episode of loss of consciousness ( i.e., there is a known medical condition or a clear provoking trigger that is reversible or avoidable, such as a drug reaction, alcohol or illicit drug withdrawal, high temperature, acute infectious disease, dehydration, or acute metabolic disturbance), the medical examiner may certify the individual if the individual has fully recovered, has no existing residual complications, and is not taking antiseizure medication and seizure recurrence and exposure to the provoking trigger in the future is unlikely. 5. When an individual has a medical history of epilepsy or a seizure disorder, the medical examiner may certify the individual if the individual is both off antiseizure medication and seizure free for 10 years or more. 6. If a medical examiner is unsure about whether to qualify an individual with a diagnosis of epilepsy or a seizure disorder, or a single nonepileptic seizure, the medical examiner may refer the individual to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration for evaluation under the criteria for a Federal seizure exemption. H. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(9) 1. Emotional or adjustment disorders contribute directly to an individual's level of memory, reasoning, attention, and judgment, and are often caused by physical disorders. A variety of functional disorders can cause drowsiness, dizziness, confusion, weakness, or paralysis that may lead to incoordination, inattention, or loss of functional control that may be likely to interfere with the ability to drive a commercial motor vehicle safely. Physical fatigue, headache, impaired coordination, recurring physical ailments, and chronic &#x201C;nagging&#x201D; pain may be present to such a degree that they may be likely to interfere with the ability to drive a commercial motor vehicle safely. Somatic and psychosomatic complaints should be thoroughly evaluated when examining an individual. 2. The degree to which an individual is able to appreciate, evaluate, and adequately respond to environmental strain and emotional stress is critical when assessing an individual's mental alertness and flexibility to cope with the stresses of commercial motor vehicle driving. 3. It is unlikely that individuals who are highly susceptible to frequent states of emotional instability ( e.g., due to schizophrenia, affective psychoses, paranoia, severe anxiety, or depressive neuroses) would satisfy the physical qualification standard. 4. Careful consideration should be given to the side effects and interactions of medications in the overall qualification determination. Medications used to treat mental, nervous, organic, or functional disease or psychiatric disorder may be likely to interfere with the ability to drive a commercial motor vehicle safely. I. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(11) 1. Since the prescribed standard under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations is from the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), formerly the American Standards Association, it may be necessary to convert the audiometric results from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard to the ANSI standard. To convert audiometric test results from ISO to ANSI, subtract 14 decibels (dBs) from the ISO result for 500 Hertz (Hz), subtract 10 dBs for 1,000 Hz, and subtract 8.5 dBs for 2000 Hz. To average, add the readings for the 3 frequencies tested and divide by 3. 2. For the whispered voice test, the individual should be stationed at least 5 feet from the medical examiner with the ear being tested turned toward the medical examiner. The other ear is covered. Using the breath that remains after a normal expiration, the medical examiner whispers words or random numbers such as 66, 18, 3, etc. The medical examiner should then ask the individual to repeat the words or sequence. The medical examiner should not use only sibilants (&#x201C;s&#x201D; sounding materials). The opposite ear should be tested in the same manner. If the individual fails the whispered voice test in both ears, the audiometric test should be administered. 3. If an individual does not meet the requirements with the use of a hearing aid and requires a Federal hearing exemption, the box for &#x201C;Wearing hearing aid&#x201D; should NOT be selected on either the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875, or Medical Examiner's Certificate, Form MCSA-5876. Instead, only the box for accompanied by a hearing exemption is selected on the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875, and the Medical Examiner's Certificate, Form MCSA-5876. 4. To obtain an application for a hearing exemption, individuals who do not meet the Federal hearing standard may call (202) 366-4001, email fmcsahearingexemptions@dot.gov, or go to https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/medical/driver-medical-requirements/new-hearing-applicant-doc-email-version. J. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(12) 1. Federal law prohibits Schedule I drugs or substances listed on 21 CFR 1308.11 from being prescribed for any purpose. Therefore, a medical examiner cannot physically qualify an individual who uses Schedule I drugs or substances. 2. A medical examiner may physically qualify an individual who uses an amphetamine, a narcotic, or other prescribed drug or substance listed on Schedules II through V in 21 CFR 1308.12 through 1308.15 if the prescription exception is met. A drug or substance that is prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner who is licensed under applicable Federal, State, local, or foreign laws to prescribe controlled drugs and substances, is familiar with the individual's medical history, and has advised the individual that the drug or substance will not adversely affect the individual's ability to safely operate a commercial motor vehicle meets the prescription exception in &#xA7; 391.41(b)(12). 3. One of the ways for the medical examiner to obtain the information that shows the prescription exception is satisfied is to request a written communication from the prescribing licensed medical practitioner who satisfies the regulation's requirements. A voluntary form available on the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's website (391.41 CMV Driver Medication Form, MCSA-5895) may be used, with the individual's consent, as an optional tool to obtain the required information. 4. The medical examiner may request a non-Department of Transportation drug test to aid in the physical qualification determination, including when signs exist indicating the individual may not have disclosed use of a scheduled drug or substance. Use of a substance abuse professional, see 49 CFR 40.3 and 40.281, is not required as part of a non-Department of Transportation drug test. K. Medical Advisory Criteria for 49 CFR 391.41(b)(13) 1. The phrase &#x201C;current clinical diagnosis of&#x201D; alcoholism is specifically designed to encompass a current alcoholic illness or those instances where the individual's physical condition has not fully stabilized. 2. When in remission, the medical examiner may certify an individual who has a prior clinical diagnosis of alcoholism. 3. The medical examiner may request a non-Department of Transportation alcohol test to aid in the physical qualification determination, including when the individual discloses excessive use of alcohol or the medical examiner observes signs of alcoholism. The use of a substance abuse professional, see 49 CFR 40.3 and 40.281, is not required. The medical examiner may request that individuals provide documentation from a professional qualified to conduct an alcohol use assessment that includes an opinion concerning whether a current clinical diagnosis of alcoholism is present or the individual is in remission prior to making a medical certification determination. [89 FR 3579, Jan. 19, 2024]