PART 511-ADJUDICATIVE PROCEDURES Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2002; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50. Source: 45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-Scope of Rules; Nature of Adjudicative Proceedings, Definitions &#xA7; 511.1 Scope of the rules. This part establishes rules of practice and procedure for adjudicative proceedings conducted pursuant to section 508(a)(2) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 911, section 2008(a)(2)), which are required by statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for a public hearing. &#xA7; 511.2 Nature of adjudicative proceedings. Adjudicative proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with title 5, U.S.C., sections 551 through 559 and this part. It is the policy of the agency that adjudicative proceedings shall be conducted expeditiously and with due regard to the rights and interests of all persons affected, and to the public interest. Therefore, the presiding officer and all parties shall make every effort at each stage of a proceeding to avoid unnecessary delay. &#xA7; 511.3 Definitions. (a) As used in this part: (1) The term application means an ex parte request by a party for an order that may be granted or denied without opportunity for response by any other party. (2) The term NHTSA means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. (3) The term Administrator means the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. (4) The term Complaint Counsel means prosecuting counsel for the NHTSA. (5) The term motion means a request by a party for a ruling or order that may be granted or denied only after opportunity for response by each affected party. (6) The term party means the NHTSA, and any person named as a respondent in a proceeding governed by this part. (7) The term person means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, public or private organization, or Federal, State or municipal governmental entity. (8) The term petition means a written request, made by a person or a party and addressed to the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, that the addressee take some action. (9) The term Presiding Officer means the person who conducts an adjudicative hearing under this part, who shall be an administrative law judge qualified under title 5, U.S.C., section 3105 and assigned by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of Hearings, United States Department of Transportation. (10) The term Respondent means any person against whom a complaint has been issued. (11) The term Office of Hearings means the Officer of Hearings, Department of Transportation. (12) The term staff means the staff of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. (13) The term Chief Administrative Law Judge means the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Hearings, Department of Transportation. (14) The term Docket Section means the Docket Section, Office of the Secretary of Transportation. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15782, May 3, 1988] Subpart B-Pleadings; Form; Execution; Service of Documents &#xA7; 511.11 Commencement of proceedings. (a) Notice of institution of an enforcement proceeding. An adjudicative proceeding under this part is commenced by the issuance of a complaint by the NHTSA. (b) Form and content of complaint. The complaint shall be signed by the Complaint Counsel and shall contain the following: (1) Recital of the legal authority for instituting the proceeding, with specific designation of the statutory provisions involved in each allegation. (2) Identification of each respondent. (3) A clear and concise statement of the charges, sufficient to inform each respondent with reasonable definiteness of the factual basis of the allegations of violation. A list and summary of documentary evidence supporting the charges shall be attached. (4) A statement of the civil penalty which the Complaint Counsel believes is in the public interest, or which is required by law. In the case of civil penalties assessed for violations of section 507(3) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2007(3)), the amount of such penalty shall be calculated from the time of the alleged violation. In the case of civil penalties assessed for violations of section 507 (1) or (2) of that Act, any monetary credits available to offset those civil penalties shall be specified. (5) The right of the respondent to a hearing on the alleged violations. (c) Notice to the public. Once a complaint is issued, notice of it shall be immediately submitted to the Federal Register for publication. The notice in the Federal Register shall briefly describe the nature of the proceeding and state that petitions to participate in the proceeding must be filed no later than the first prehearing conference. &#xA7; 511.12 Answer. (a) Time for filing. A respondent shall have twenty (20) days after service of a complaint within which to file an answer. (b) Content of answer. An answer shall conform to the following: (1) Request for hearing. Respondent shall state whether it requests a full, adjudicatory hearing or whether it desires to proceed on the basis of written submissions. If a hearing is requested, respondent shall specify those issues on which a hearing is desired. (2) Contested allegations. An answer in which the allegations of a complaint are contested shall contain: (i) Specific admission or denial of each allegation in the complaint. If the respondent is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to the truth of an allegation, respondent shall so state. Such a statement shall have the effect of a denial. Denials shall fairly meet the substance of the allegations denied. Allegations not thus answered shall be deemed to have been admitted. (ii) A concise statement of the factual and/or legal defenses to each allegation of the complaint. (3) Admitted allegations. If the respondent admits or fails to deny any factual allegation, he or she shall be deemed to have waived a hearing as to such allegation. (c) Default. Failure of the respondent to file an answer within the time provided (or within an extended time, if provided), shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right to appear and contest the allegations set forth in the complaint and to authorize the Presiding Officer to make such findings of fact as are reasonable under the circumstances. &#xA7; 511.13 Amendments and supplemental pleadings. Whenever determination of a controversy on the merits will be facilitated thereby, the Presiding Officer upon motion, may allow appropriate amendments and supplemental pleadings which do not unduly broaden the issues in the proceeding or cause undue delay. &#xA7; 511.14 Form and filing of documents. (a) Filing. Except as otherwise provided, all documents submitted to the Administrator or a Presiding Officer shall be filed with the Docket Section, Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation, Room 4107, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Documents may be filed in person or by mail and shall be deemed filed on the day of filing or mailing. (b) Caption. Every document shall contain a caption setting forth the name of the action in connection with which it is filed, the docket number, and the title of the document. (c) Copies. An original and nine (9) copies of all documents shall be filed. Documents may be reproduced by printing or any other process, provided that all copies filed are clear and legible. (d) Signature. (1) The original of each document filed shall be signed by a representative of record for the party; or in the case of parties not represented, by the party; or by a partner, officer, or regular employee of any corporation, partnership, or association, who files an appearance on behalf of the party. (2) The act of signing a document constitutes a representation by the signer that the signer has read it; that to the best of the signer's knowledge, information and belief, the statements made in it are true; and that it is not filed for purposes of delay. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15782, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.15 Time. (a) Computation. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by the rules in this part, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation. As used in this part, &#x201C;legal holiday&#x201D; includes New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any other day appointed as a holiday by the President or the Congress of the United States. (b) Additional time after service by mail. Whenever a party is required or permitted to do an act within a prescribed period after service of a document and the document is served by mail, three (3) days shall be added to the prescribed period. (c) Extensions. For good cause shown, the Presiding Officer may extend any time limit prescribed or allowed under this part or by order of the Administrator or the Presiding Officer, except those governing the filing of interlocutory appeals and appeals from Initial Decisions and those expressly requiring the Administrator's action. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Administrator, for good cause shown, may extend any time limit prescribed under this part, or by order of the Administrator or the Presiding Officer. A party or participant may petition the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as appropriate, for an extension under this paragraph. Such a petition shall be filed prior to the occurrence of the time limit which is the subject of the petition. &#xA7; 511.16 Service. (a) Mandatory service. Every document filed with the Office of Hearings shall be served upon all parties and participants to a proceeding, i.e., Complaint Counsel, respondent(s), and participants, and upon the Presiding Officer. (b) Service of complaint, ruling, order, decision, or subpoena. Service of a complaint, ruling, order, decision, or subpoena may be effected as follows: (1) By registered or certified mail. A copy of the document shall be addressed to the person, partnership, corporation or unincorporated association to be served at his or its residence or principal office or place of business; registered or certified; and mailed; or (2) By delivery to an individual. A copy of the document may be delivered to the person to be served; or to a member of the partnership to be served; or to the president, secretary, or other executive officer, or a director of the corporation or unincorporated association to be served; or to an agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service; or (3) By delivery to an address. A copy of the document may be left at the principal office or place of business of the person, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, or authorized agent with an officer, a managing or general agent; or it may be left with a person of suitable age and discretion residing therein, at the residence of the person or of a member of the partnership or of an executive officer, director, or agent of the corporation or unincorporated association to be served. (c) Service of documents with prescribed response periods. When service of a document starts the running of a prescribed period of time for the submission of a responsive document or the occurrence of an event, the document shall be served as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Service of other documents. All documents other than those specified in paragraph (c) of this section may be served as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, or by ordinary first-class mail, properly addressed, postage prepaid. (e) Service on a representative. When a party has appeared by an attorney or other representative, service upon that attorney or other representative shall constitute service on the party. (f) Certificate of service. The original of every document filed with the agency and required to be served upon all parties to a proceeding shall be accompanied by a certificate of service signed by the party making service, stating that such service has been made upon each party to the proceeding. Certificates of service may be in substantially the following form: I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon all parties of record in this proceeding by mailing, postage prepaid (or by delivering in person) a copy to each such party. Dated at ____________________ this ____ day of ____________________, 19____. (Signature) For (g) Date of service. The date of service of a document shall be the date on which the document is deposited in the United States mail or is delivered in person. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.17 Public participation. Participant Status. Any person interested in a proceeding commenced pursuant to &#xA7; 511.11 who desires to participate in the proceeding, shall file with the Docket Section a notice of intention to participate in the proceeding and shall serve a copy of such notice on each party to the proceeding. A notice of intention to participate shall be filed not later than the commencement of the hearing. Untimely filings will not be accepted absent a determination by the Presiding Officer that the person making the request has made a substantial showing of good cause for failure to file on time. Any person who files a notice to participate in the proceeding as a nonparty shall be known as a &#x201C;participant&#x201D; and shall have the rights specified in &#xA7; 511.41(d). [53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.18 Joinder of proceedings. Two or more matters which have been scheduled for adjudicative proceedings, and which involve one or more common questions of law or fact, may be consolidated for the purpose of hearing, appeal or the Administrator's review. A motion for consolidation for the purpose of hearing may be filed with the Presiding Officer by any party to such proceedings not later than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing. A motion for consolidation for the purpose of appeal may be filed by any party to such proceedings within 10 days after issuance of the Initial Decision. A motion to consolidate shall be served upon all parties to all proceedings whose joinder is contemplated. The proceedings may be consolidated where to do so would tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. Such consolidation may also be ordered upon the initiative of the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as appropriate. The Presiding Officer may order separate hearings on any issue where to do so would promote economy or convenience or would avoid prejudice to a party. Subpart C-Prehearing Procedures; Motions; Interlocutory Appeals; Summary Judgment; Settlement &#xA7; 511.21 Prehearing conferences. (a) When held. (1) A prehearing conference shall be held in person or by conference telephone call, except in unusual circumstances, approximately fifty (50) days after publication in the Federal Register of the complaint, upon ten (10) days notice to all parties and participants, to consider any or all the following: (i) Motions for consolidation of proceedings; (ii) Identification, simplification and clarification of the issues; (iii) Necessity or desirability of amending the pleadings; (iv) Stipulations and admissions of fact and of the content and authenticity of documents; (v) Oppositions to notices of oral examination; (vi) Motions for protective orders to limit or modify discovery; (vii) Issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of witnesses and the production of documents; (viii) Limitation of the number of witnesses, particularly the avoidance of duplicate expert witnesses; (ix) Matters of which official notice will be taken and matters which may be resolved by reliance upon findings of other Federal agencies; and (x) Other matters which may expedite the conduct of the hearing. &#xA7; 511.22 Prehearing briefs. Not later ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the parties shall, except when ordered otherwise by the Presiding Officer in unusual circumstances, simultaneously serve and file prehearing briefs, which shall set forth (a) a statement of the facts expected to be proved, and of the anticipated order of proof; (b) a statement of the issues and the legal argument in support of the party's contentions with respect to each issue; and (c) a table of authorities with a designation by asterisk of the principal authorities relied upon. &#xA7; 511.23 Motions. (a) Presentations and dispositions. During the time a proceeding is before a Presiding Officer, all motions, whether oral or written, except those filed under &#xA7; 511.42(e), shall be addressed to the Presiding Officer, who shall rule upon them promptly after affording an opportunity for response. (b) Written motions. All written motions shall state the particular order, ruling, or action desired and the grounds therefor. If a motion is supported by memoranda, affidavits or other documents, they shall be served and filed with the motion. All motions shall contain a proposed order setting forth the relief sought. All written motions shall be filed with the Executive Secretary and served on all parties, and all motions addressed to the Administrator shall be in writing. (c) Responses. Within ten (10) days after service of any written motion or petition or within such longer or shorter time as may be designated by these Rules or by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, the opposing party or parties shall file a written response to such motion. Where a motion would affect only a single party, or an identifiable group of parties, the Presiding Officer or Administrator may limit the response to the motion to the affected party or parties. Failure to respond to a written motion may, in the discretion of the Presiding Officer be deemed as consent to the granting of the relief sought in the motion. The moving party shall have no right to reply, except as permitted by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator. (d) Rulings on motions for dismissal. When a motion to dismiss a complaint or motion for other relief is granted with the result that the proceeding before the Presiding Officer is terminated, the Presiding Officer shall issue an Initial Decision and Order thereon in accordance with the provisions of &#xA7; 511.51. If such a motion is granted as to all issues alleged in the complaint in regard to some, but not all, of the respondents, or is granted as to any part of the allegations in regard to any or all of the respondents, the Presiding Officer shall enter an order on the record and consider the remaining issues in the Initial Decision. The Presiding Officer may elect to defer ruling on a motion to dismiss until the close of the case. &#xA7; 511.24 Interlocutory appeals. (a) General. Rulings of the Presiding Officer may not be appealed to the Administrator prior to the Initial Decision, except as provided herein. (b) Exceptions -(1) Interlocutory appeals to Administrator. The Administrator may, in his or her discretion, entertain interlocutory appeals where a ruling of the Presiding Officer: (i) Requires the production or disclosure of records claimed to be confidential; (ii) Requires the testimony of a supervisory official of the agency other than one especially cognizant of the facts of the matter in adjudication; (iii) Excludes an attorney from participation in a proceeding pursuant to &#xA7; 511.42(b). (2) Procedures for interlocutory appeals. Within ten (10) days of issuance of a ruling, any party may petition the Administrator to entertain an interlocutory appeal on a ruling in the categories enumerated above. The petition shall not exceed fifteen (15) pages. Any other party may file a response to the petition within ten (10) days of its service. The response shall not exceed fifteen (15) pages. The Administrator shall thereupon act upon the petition, or the Administrator shall request such further briefing or oral presentation as he may deem necessary. (3) Interlocutory appeals from all other rulings -(i) Grounds. Interlocutory appeals from all other rulings by the Presiding Officer may proceed only upon motion to the Presiding Officer and a determination by the Presiding Officer in writing, with justification in support thereof, that the ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which there is substantial ground for differences of opinion and that an immediate appeal from the ruling may materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation, or that subsequent review will be an inadequate remedy. (ii) Form. If the Presiding Officer determines, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section that an interlocutory appeal may proceed, a petition for interlocutory appeal may be filed with and acted upon by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (c) Proceedings not stayed. A petition for interlocutory appeal under this part shall not stay the proceedings before the Presiding Officer unless the Presiding Officer shall so order, except that a ruling of the Presiding Officer requiring the production of records claimed to be confidential shall be automatically stayed for a period of (10) days following the issuance of such ruling to allow an affected party the opportunity to file a petition for an interlocutory appeal pursuant to &#xA7; 511.24(b)(2). The filing of such a petition shall automatically extend the stay of such a ruling pending the Administrator's action on such petition. &#xA7; 511.25 Summary decision and order. (a) Motion. Any party may move, with a supporting memorandum, for a Summary Decision and Order in its favor upon all or any of the issues in controversy. Complaint Counsel may so move at any time after thirty (30) days following issuance of a complaint, and any other party may so move at any time after issuance of a complaint. Any such motion by any party shall be filed at least twenty (20) days before the date fixed for the adjudicatory hearing. (b) Response to motion. Any other party may, within ten (10) days after service of the motion, file a response thereto with a supporting memorandum. (c) Grounds. A Summary Decision and Order shall be granted if the pleadings and any testimony upon oral examination, answers to interrogatories, admissions, and/or affidavits show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a Summary Decision and Order as a matter of law. (d) Legal effect. A Summary Decision and Order upon all the issues being adjudicated shall constitute the Initial Decision of the Presiding Officer, and may be appealed to the Administrator in accordance with &#xA7; 511.53. A Summary Decision, interlocutory in character, may be rendered on fewer than all issues and may not be appealed prior to issuance of the Initial Decision, except in accordance with &#xA7; 511.24. (e) Case not fully adjudicated on motion. A Summary Decision and Order that does not dispose of the whole case shall include a statement of those material facts as to which there is no substantial controversy, and of those material facts that are actually and in good faith controverted. The Summary Order shall direct such further proceedings as are just. &#xA7; 511.26 Settlement. (a) Applicability. This section applies only to cases of alleged violations of section 507(3) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 911 (15 U.S.C. section 2007(3)). Settlement in other cases may be made only in accordance with subpart G of this part. (b) Availability. Any party shall have the opportunity to submit an offer of settlement to the Presiding Officer. (c) Form. Offers of settlement shall be in the form of a consent agreement and order, shall be signed by the party submitting the offer or his representative, and may be signed by any other party. Each offer of settlement shall be accompanied by a motion to transmit to the Administrator the proposed agreement and order, outlining the substantive provisions of the agreement, and the reasons why it should be accepted. (d) Contents. The proposed consent agreement and order which constitute the offer of settlement shall contain the following: (1) An admission of all jurisdictional facts; (2) An express waiver of further procedural steps, and of all rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to contest the validity of the order; (3) A description of the alleged noncompliance, or violation; (4) Provisions to the effect that the allegations of the complaint are resolved by the proposed consent agreement and order; (5) A listing of the acts or practices from which the respondent shall refrain; (6) A detailed statement of the corrective action(s) which the respondent shall excute and the civil penalty, if any, that respondent shall pay. (e) Transmittal. The Presiding Officer shall transmit to the Administrator for decision all offers of settlement and accompanying memoranda that meet the requirements enumerated in paragraph (d) of this section. The Presiding Officer may, but need not, recommend acceptance or rejection of such offers. Any party or participant may object to a proposed consent agreement by filing a motion and supporting memorandum with the Administrator. (f) Stay of proceedings. When an offer of settlement has been agreed to by the parties and has been transmitted to the Administrator, the proceedings shall be stayed until the Administrator has ruled on the offer. When an offer of settlement has been made and transmitted to the Administrator but has not been agreed to by all parties, the proceedings shall not be stayed pending the Administrator's decision on the offer. (g) Administrator's ruling. The Administrator will rule upon all transmitted offers of settlement. If the Administrator accepts the offer, the Administrator shall issue an appropriate order. The order shall become effective upon issuance. In determining whether to accept an offer of settlement, the Administrator will consider the gravity of the alleged violation, and any good faith efforts by the respondent to comply with applicable requirements. (h) Rejection. If the Administrator rejects an offer of settlement, the Administrator shall give written notice of that decision and the reasons therefor to the parties and the Presiding Officer. Promptly thereafter, the Presiding Officer shall issue an order notifying the parties of the resumption of the proceedings, including any modifications to the schedule resulting from the stay of the proceedings. (i) Effect of rejected offer. Rejected offers of settlement shall not be admissible in evidence over the objection of any signatory, nor shall the fact of the proposal of the offer be admissible in evidence. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] Subpart D-Discovery; Compulsory Process &#xA7; 511.31 General provisions governing discovery. (a) Applicability. The discovery rules established in this subpart are applicable to the discovery of information among the parties to a proceeding. Parties seeking information from persons not parties may do so by subpoena in accordance with &#xA7; 511.38. (b) Discovery methods. Parties may obtain discovery by one or more of the following methods: (1) Written interrogatories; (2) requests for production of documents or things; (3) requests for admissions; or (4) testimony upon oral examination. Unless the Presiding Officer otherwise orders under paragraph (d) of this section, the frequency of use of these methods is not limited. (c) Scope of discovery. The scope of discovery is as follows: (1) In general. Parties may obtain discovery regarding any matter not privileged, which is relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceedings, whether it relates to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or to the claim or defense of any other party. It is not ground for objection that the information sought will be inadmissible at the hearing if the information sought appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (2) Exception. Parties may not obtain discovery of documents which accompanied the staff's recommendation as to whether a complaint should issue or of documents or portions thereof which would be exempt from discovery under Rule 26(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. (3) Hearing preparation: Experts. A party may obtain discovery of facts known and opinions held by experts, regardless of whether they are acquired or developed in anticipation of or for litigation. Such discovery may be had by any of the methods provided in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Protective orders. Upon motion by a party or person and for good cause shown, the Presiding Officer may make any order which justice requires to protect such party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, competitive disadvantage, oppression or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following: (1) That the discovery shall not be had; (2) that the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time and/or place; (3) that the discovery shall be had only by a method of discovery other than that selected by the party seeking discovery; (4) that certain matters shall not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery shall be limited to certain matters; (5) that discovery shall be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the Presiding Officer; (6) that a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information shall not be disclosed or shall be disclosed only in a designated way or only to designated parties; and (7) that responses to discovery shall be placed in camera in accordance with &#xA7; 511.45. If a motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the Presiding Officer may, on such terms or conditions as are just, order that any party provide or permit discovery. (e) Sequence and timing of discovery. Discovery may commence at any time after filing of the answer. Unless otherwise provided in these Rules or by order of the Presiding Officer, methods of discovery may be used in any sequence and the fact that a party is conducting discovery shall not operate to delay any other party's discovery. (f) Supplementation of responses. A party who has responded to a request for discovery shall supplement the response with information thereafter acquired. (g) Completion of discovery. All discovery shall be completed as soon as practical but in no case longer than one hundred fifty (150) days after issuance of a complaint unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer in exceptional circumstances and for good cause shown. All discovery shall be served by a date which affords the party from whom discovery is sought the full response period provided by these Rules. (h) Service and filing of discovery. All discovery requests and written responses, and all notices of the taking of testimony, shall be filed with the Docket Section and served on all parties and the Presiding Officer. (i) Control of discovery. The use of these discovery procedures is subject to the control of the Presiding Officer, who may issue any just and appropriate order for the purpose of ensuring their timely completion. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.32 Written interrogatories to parties. (a) Availability; procedures for use. Any party may serve upon any other party written interrogatories to be answered by the party served or, if the party served is a public or private corporation or a partnership or association or governmental agency, by any officer or agent, who shall furnish such information as is available to the party. Interrogatories may, without leave of the Presiding Officer, be served upon any party after filing of the answer. (b) Procedures for response. Each interrogatory shall be answered separately and fully in writing under oath, unless it is objected to, in which event the reasons for objection shall be stated in lieu of an answer. The answers are to be signed by a responsible representative of the respondent and the objections signed by the representative making them. The party upon whom the interrogatories have been served shall serve a copy of the answers, and objections if any, within 30 days after service of the interrogatories. The Presiding Officer may allow a shorter or longer time for response. The party submitting the interrogatories may move for an order under &#xA7; 511.36 with respect to any objection to or other failure to answer an interrogatory. (c) Scope of interrogatories. Interrogatories may relate to any matters which can be inquired into under &#xA7; 511.31(c)(1), and the answers may be used to the extent permitted under this part. An interrogatory otherwise proper is not objectionable merely because an answer to the interrogatory would involve an opinion or contention that relates to fact or to the application of law to fact, but the Presiding Officer may order that such an interrogatory need not be answered until a later time. (d) Option to produce business records. Where the answer to an interrogatory may be derived or ascertained from the business records of the party upon whom the interrogatory has been served, or from an examination, audit or inspection of such business records, or from a compilation, abstract or summary based thereon, and the burden of deriving the answer is substantially the same for the party serving the interrogatory as for the party served, it is a sufficient answer to the interrogatory to specify the records from which the answer may be derived or ascertained and to afford to the party serving the interrogatory reasonable opportunity to examine, audit or inspect such records and to make copies, complications, abstracts, or summaries. &#xA7; 511.33 Production of documents and things. (a) Scope. Any party may serve upon any other party a request (1) to produce and permit the party making the request, or someone acting on behalf of that party, to inspect and copy any designated documents (including writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, phono-records, and any other data-compilation from which information can be obtained, translated, if necessary, by the party in possession into reasonably usable form), or (2) to inspect and copy, test or sample tangible things which constitute or contain matters within the scope of &#xA7; 511.31(c)(1) and which are in the possession, custody or control of the party upon whom the request is served. (b) Procedure for request. The request may be served at any time after the filing of the answer without leave of the Presiding Officer. The request shall set forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or by category, and shall describe each item or category with reasonable particularity. The request shall specify a reasonable time, place and manner for making the inspection and performing the related acts. (c) Procedure for response. The party upon whom the request is served shall serve a written response within twenty (20) days after service of the request. The Presiding Officer may allow a shorter or longer time for response. The response shall state, with respect to each item or category requested, that inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested, unless the request is objected to, in which event the reasons for objection shall be stated. If objection is made to only part of an item or category, that part shall be so specified. The party submitting the request may move for an order under &#xA7; 511.36 with respect to any objection to or other failure to respond to the request or any part thereof, or to any failure to permit inspection as requested. &#xA7; 511.34 Requests for admission. (a) Procedure for request. A party may serve upon any other party a written request for the admission, for the purposes of the pending proceeding only, of the truth of any matters within the scope of &#xA7; 511.31(c)(1) set forth in the request that relate to statements or opinions of fact or of the application of law to fact, including the genuineness of documents described in the request. Copies of documents shall be served with the request unless they have been, or are otherwise furnished or made available for inspection and copying. The request may, without leave of the Presiding Officer, be served upon any party after filing of the answer. Each matter as to which an admission is requested shall be separately set forth. (b) Procedure for response. The matter as to which an admission is requested is deemed admitted unless within thirty (30) days after service of the request, or within such shorter or longer time as the Presiding Officer may allow, the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the party requesting the admission a written answer or objection addressed to the matter, signed by the party or the party's representatives. If objection is made, the reasons therefore shall be stated. The answer shall specifically admit or deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the substance of the requested admission. When good faith requires that a party qualify an answer or deny only a part of the matter as to which an admission is requested, the party shall specify the portion that is true and qualify or deny the remainder. An answering party may not give lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny, unless the party states that he or she has made reasonable inquiry and that the information known or readily available to him or her is insufficient to enable him or her to admit or deny. A party who considers that a matter as to which an admission has been requested presents a genuine issue for hearing may not, on that ground alone, object to the request but may deny the matter or set forth reasons why the party cannot admit or deny it. The party who has requested an admission may move to determine the sufficiency of the answer or objection thereto in accordance with &#xA7; 511.36. If the Presiding Officer determines that an answer does not comply with the requirements of this section, he or she may order that the matter be deemed admitted or that an amended answer be served. (c) Effect of admission. Any matter admitted under this section is conclusively established unless the Presiding Officer on motion permits withdrawal or amendment of such admission. The Presiding Officer may permit withdrawal or amendment when the presentation of the merits of the action will be served thereby and the party that obtained the admission fails to satisfy the Presiding Officer that withdrawal or amendment will prejudice that party in maintaining an action or defense on the merits. &#xA7; 511.35 Testimony upon oral examination. (a) When testimony may be taken. At any time after the answer is filed under &#xA7; 511.12, upon leave of the Presiding Officer and under such terms and conditions as the Presiding Officer may prescribe, any party may take the testimony of any other party, including the agents, employees, consultants or prospective witnesses of that party at a place convenient to the witness. The attendance of witnesses and the production of documents and things at the examination may be compelled by subpoena as provided in &#xA7; 511.38. (b) Notice of oral examination -(1) Examination of a party. A party desiring to examine another party to the proceeding shall, after obtaining leave from the Presiding Officer, serve written notice of the examination on all other parties and the Presiding Officer at least ten (10) days before the date of the examination. The notice shall state (i) the time and place for making the examination; (ii) the name and address of each person to be examined, if known, or if the name is not known, a general description sufficient to identify him; and (iii) the subject matter of the expected testimony. If a subpoena duces tecum is to be served on the person to be examined, the designation of the materials to be produced, as set forth in the subpoena, shall be attached to or included in the notice of examination. (2) Examination of a nonparty. A party desiring to examine a person who is not a party to the proceeding shall make application for a subpoena, in accordance with &#xA7; 511.38, to compel the attendance, testimony and/or production of documents by such person who is not a party. The party desiring such examination shall serve written notice of the examination on all other parties to the proceeding, after issuance of the subpoena by the Presiding Officer or a designated alternate. (3) Opposition to notice. A person served with a notice of examination may, within 3 days of the date of service, oppose, in writing, the examination. The Presiding Officer shall rule on the notice and any opposition and may order the taking of all noticed examinations, upon a showing of good cause therefor. The Presiding Officer may, for good cause shown, enlarge or shorten the time for the taking of an examination. (c) Persons before whom examinations may be taken. Examinations may be taken before any person authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the examination is held. No examination shall be taken before a person who is a relative or employee or attorney or representative of any party, or who is a relative or employee of such attorney or representative, or who is financially interested in the action. (d) Procedure -(1) Examination. Each witness shall be duly sworn, and all testimony shall be duly recorded. All parties or their representatives may be present and participate in the examination. Examination and cross-examination of witnesses may proceed as permitted at the hearing. Questions objected to shall be answered subject to the objections. Objections shall be in short form, and shall state the grounds relied upon. The questions propounded and the answers thereto, together with all objections made, shall be recorded by the official reporter before whom the examination is made. The original or a verified copy of all documents and things produced for inspection during the examination of the witness shall, upon a request of any party present, be marked for identification and annexed to the record of the examination. (2) Motion to terminate or limit examination. At any time during the examination, upon motion of any party or of the witness, and upon showing that the examination is being conducted in bad faith or in such manner as unreasonably to annoy, embarrass or oppress the witness or party, the Presiding Officer may, upon motion, order the party conducting the examination to terminate the examination, or may limit the scope and manner of the examination as provided in &#xA7; 511.31(d). (3) Participation by parties not present. In lieu of attending an examination, any party may serve written questions in a sealed envelope on the party conducting the examination. That party shall transmit the envelope to the official reporter, who shall unseal it and propound the questions contained therein to the witness. (e) Transcription and filing of testimony -(1) Transcription. Upon request by any party, the testimony recorded at an examination shall be transcribed. When the testimony is fully transcribed, the transcript shall be submitted to the witness for examination and signing, and shall be read to or by the witness, unless such examination and signature are waived by the witness. Any change in form or substance which the witness desires to make shall be entered upon the transcript of the official reporter with a statement of the reasons given by the witness for making them. The transcript shall then be signed by the witness, unless the parties by stipulation waive the signing, or the witness is ill or cannot be found or refuses to sign. If the transcript is not signed by the witness within thirty (30) days of its submission to him, the official reporter shall sign it and state on the record the fact of the waiver of signature or of the illness or absence of the witness or the fact of the refusal to sign, together with a statement of the reasons therefor. The testimony may then be used as fully as though signed, in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section. (2) Certification and filing. The official reporter shall certify on the transcript that the witness was duly sworn and that the transcript is a true record of the testimony given and corrections made by the witness. The official reporter shall then seal the transcript in an envelope endorsed with the title and docket number of the action and marked &#x201C;Testimony of [name of witness]&#x201D; and shall promptly file the transcript with the Docket Section. The Presiding Officer shall notify all parties of the filing of the transcript and the Docket Section shall furnish a copy of the transcript to any party or to the witness upon payment of reasonable charges therefor. (f) Costs of examination. The party who notices the examination shall pay for the examination. The party who requests transcription of the examination shall pay for the transcription. (g) Failure to attend or to serve subpoena; expenses. If a party who notices an examination fails to attend and proceed therewith and another party attends in person or by a representative pursuant to the notice, the Presiding Officer may order the party who gave the notice to pay the attending party the reasonable expenses incurred. If a party who notices an examination fails to serve a subpoena upon the witness and as a result the witness does not attend, and if another party attends in person or by a representative because that party expects the examination to be made, the Presiding Officer may order the party who gave notice to pay the attending party the reasonable expenses incurred. (h) Examination to preserve testimony -(1) When available. By leave of the Presiding Officer, a party may examine a witness for the purpose of perpetuating the testimony of that witness. A party who wishes to conduct such an examination shall obtain prior leave of the Presiding Officer by filing a motion. The motion shall include a showing of substantial reason to believe that the testimony could not be presented at the hearing. If the Presiding Officer is satisfied that the perpetuation of the testimony may prevent a failure of justice or is otherwise reasonably necessary, he or she shall order that the deposition be taken. (2) Procedure. Notice of an examination to preserve testimony shall be served at least fifteen (15) days prior to the examination. The examination shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section. Any examination taken to preserve testimony shall be fully transcribed and filed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. (i) Use of testimony obtained under this section. At the hearing or upon a motion or an interlocutory proceeding, any part or all of a deposition, so far as admissible under the rules of evidence applied as though the witness were then present and testifying, may be used against any party who was present or represented at the taking of the deposition or who had reasonable notice thereof, in accordance with any of the following provisions: (1) Any deposition may be used by any party for the purpose of contradicting or impeaching the testimony of the deponent as a witness. (2) The deposition of a party or of a person who at the time of the taking of his testimony was an officer, director or managing agent of a party may be used against that party for any purpose. (3) The deposition of a witness, whether or not a party, may be used by any party for any purpose if the Presiding Officer finds: (i) That the witness is dead; or (ii) That the witness is at a greater distance than 100 miles from the place of the hearing, or is out of the United States, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party offering the deposition; or (iii) That the witness is unable to attend or testify because of age, illness, infirmity, or imprisonment; or (iv) That the party offering the deposition has been unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or (v) Upon application and notice, that such exceptional circumstances exist as to make it desirable, in the interest of justice and with due regard to the importance of presenting the testimony of witnesses orally in open court, to allow the deposition to be used. (4) If only part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a party, an adverse party may require him to introduce any other part which ought in fairness to be considered with the part introduced, and any party may introduce any other parts. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.36 Motions to compel discovery. If a party fails to respond to discovery, in whole or in part, the party seeking discovery may move within twenty (20) days for an order compelling an answer, or compelling inspection or production of documents, or otherwise compelling discovery. For purposes of this subsection, an evasive or incomplete response is to be treated as a failure to respond. If the motion is granted, the Presiding Officer shall issue an order compelling discovery. If the motion is denied in whole or in part, the Presiding Officer may make such protective order as he or she would have been empowered to make on a motion pursuant to &#xA7; 511.31(d). When making oral examinations, the discovering party shall continue the examination to the extent possible with respect to other areas of inquiry before moving to compel discovery. &#xA7; 511.37 Sanctions for failure to comply with order. If a party fails to obey an order to provide or permit discovery, the Presiding Officer may take such action as is just, including but not limited to the following: (a) Infer that the admission, testimony, document or other evidence would have been adverse to the party; (b) Order that for the purposes of the proceeding, the matters regarding which the order was made or any other designated facts shall be taken to be established in accordance with the claim of the party obtaining the order; (c) Order that the party withholding discovery not introduce into evidence or otherwise rely, in support of any claim or defense, upon the documents or other evidence withheld; (d) Order that the party withholding discovery not introduce into evidence or otherwise use at the hearing, information obtained in discovery; (e) Order that the party withholding discovery not be heard to object to introduction and use of secondary evidence to show what the withheld admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have shown; (f) Order that a pleading, or part of a pleading, or a motion or other submission by the party, concerning which the order was issued, be stricken, or that decision on the pleadings be rendered against the party, or both; and (g) Exclude the party or representative from proceedings, in accordance with &#xA7; 511.42(b). Any such action may be taken by order at any point in the proceedings. &#xA7; 511.38 Subpoenas. (a) Availability. A subpoena shall be addressed to any party or any person not a party for the purpose of compelling attendance, testimony and production of documents at a hearing or oral examination. (b) Form. A subpoena shall identify the action with which it is connected; shall specify the person to whom it is addressed and the date, time and place for compliance with its provisions; and shall be issued by order of the Presiding Officer and signed by the Chief Counsel, or by the Presiding Officer. A subpoena duces tecum shall specify the books, papers, documents, or other materials or data-compilations to be produced. (c) How obtained -(1) Content of application. An application for the issuance of a subpoena stating reasons shall be submitted in triplicate to the Presiding Officer. (2) Procedure of application. The original and two copies of the subpoena, marked &#x201C;original,&#x201D; &#x201C;duplicate&#x201D; and &#x201C;triplicate,&#x201D; shall accompany the application. The Presiding Officer shall rule upon an application for a subpoena ex parte, by issuing the subpoena or by issuing an order denying the application. (d) Issuance of a subpoena. The Presiding Officer shall issue a subpoena by signing and dating, or ordering the Chief Counsel to sign and date, each copy in the lower right-hand corner of the document. The &#x201C;duplicate&#x201D; and &#x201C;triplicate&#x201D; copies of the subpoena shall be transmitted to the applicant for service in accordance with these Rules; the &#x201C;original&#x201D; copy shall be retained by or forwarded to the Chief Counsel for retention in the docket of the proceeding. (e) Service of a subpoena. A subpoena may be served in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, as provided in &#xA7; 511.16(b). Service shall be made by delivery of the signed &#x201C;duplicate&#x201D; copy to the person named therein. (f) Return of service. A person serving a subpoena shall promptly execute a return of service, stating the date, time, and manner of service. If service is effected by mail, the signed return receipt shall accompany the return of service. In case of failure to make service, a statement of the reasons for the failure shall be made. The &#x201C;triplicate&#x201D; of the subpoena, bearing or accompanied by the return of service, shall be returned forthwith to the Chief Counsel after service has been completed. (g) Motion to quash or limit subpoena. Within five (5) days of receipt of a subpoena, the person against whom it is directed may file with the Presiding Officer a motion to quash, modify, or limit the subpoena, setting forth the reasons why the subpoena should be withdrawn or why it should be modified or limited in scope. Any such motion shall be answered within five (5) days of service, and shall be ruled on immediately thereafter. The order shall specify the date, if any, for compliance with the specifications of the subpoena and the reasons for the decision. (h) Consequences of failure to comply. In the event of failure to comply with a subpoena, the Presiding Officer may take any of the actions enumerated in &#xA7; 511.37 or may order any other appropriate relief to compensate for the withheld testimony, documents, or other materials. If in the opinon of the Presiding Officer such relief is insufficient, the Presiding Officer shall certify to the Administrator a request for judicial enforcement of the subpoena. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 26261, July 12, 1988] &#xA7; 511.39 Orders requiring witnesses to testify or provide other information and granting immunity. (a) A party who desires the issuance of an order requiring a witness to testify or provide other information upon being granted immunity from prosecution under title 18, U.S.C., section 6002, may make a motion to that effect. The motion shall be made and ruled on in accordance with &#xA7; 511.22, and shall include a showing: (1) That the testimony or other information sought from a witness or prospective witness may be necessary to the public interest; and (2) That such individual has refused or is likely to refuse to testify or provide such information on the basis of that individual's privilege against self-incrimination. (b) If the Presiding Officer determines that the witness' testimony appears necessary and that the privilege against self-incrimination may be invoked, he or she may certify to the Administrator a request that he or she obtain the approval of the Attorney General of the United States for the issuance of an order granting immunity. (c) Upon application to and approval of the Attorney General of the United States, and after the witness has invoked the privilege against self-incrimination, the Presiding Officer shall issue the order granting immunity unless he or she determines that the privilege was improperly invoked. (d) Failure of a witness to testify after a grant of immunity or after a denial of the issuance of an order granting immunity shall result in the imposition of appropriate sanctions as provided in &#xA7; 511.37. Subpart E-Hearings &#xA7; 511.41 General rules. (a) Public hearings. All hearings pursuant to this part shall be public unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer. Notice of the time and location of the hearing shall be served on each party and participant, and published in the Federal Register. (b) Expedition. Hearings shall proceed with all reasonable speed, insofar as practicable and with due regard to the convenience of the parties and shall continue without suspension until concluded, except in unusual circumstances. (c) Rights of parties. Every party shall have the right of timely notice and all other rights essential to a fair hearing, including, but not limited to, the rights to present evidence, to conduct such cross-examination as may be necessary in the judgment of the Presiding Officer for a full and complete disclosure of the facts, and to be heard by objection, motion, brief, and argument. (d) Rights of participants. Every participant shall have the right to make a written or oral statement of position, file proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and a posthearing brief, in accordance with &#xA7; 511.17(b). (e) Rights of witnesses. Any person compelled to testify in a proceeding in response to a subpoena may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel or other representative, and may obtain a transcript of his or her testimony at no cost. &#xA7; 511.42 Powers and duties of Presiding Officer. (a) General. A Presiding Officer shall have the duty to conduct full, fair, and impartial hearings, to take appropriate action to avoid unnecessary delay in the disposition of proceedings, and to maintain order. He or she shall have all powers necessary to that end, including the following powers: (1) To administer oaths and affirmations; (2) To compel discovery and to impose appropriate sanctions for failure to make discovery; (3) To issue subpoenas; (4) To rule upon offers of proof and receive relevant and probative evidence; (5) To regulate the course of the hearings and the conduct of the parties and their representatives therein; (6) To hold conferences for simplification of the issues, settlement of the proceedings, or any other proper purposes; (7) To consider and rule, orally or in writing, upon all procedural and other motions appropriate in an adjudicative proceeding; (8) To issue initial decisions, rulings, and orders, as appropriate; (9) To certify questions to the Administrator for determination; and (10) To take any action authorized in this part or in conformance with the provisions of title 5, U.S.C., sections 551 through 559. (b) Exclusion of parties by Presiding Officer. A Presiding Officer shall have the authority, for good cause stated on the record, to exclude from participation in a proceeding any party, participant, and/or representative who shall violate requirements of &#xA7; 511.76. Any party, participant and/or representative so excluded may appeal to the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of &#xA7; 511.23. If the representative of a party or participant is excluded, the hearing shall be suspended for a reasonable time so that the party or participant may obtain another representative. (c) Substitution of Presiding Officer. In the event of the substitution of a new Presiding Officer for the one originally designated, any motion predicated upon such substitution shall be made within five (5) days of the substitution. (d) Interference. In the performance of adjudicative functions, a Presiding Officer shall not be responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of the Administrator or of any officer, employee, or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for NHTSA. All directions by the Administrator to a Presiding Officer concerning any adjudicative proceeding shall appear on and be made a part of the record. (e) Disqualification of Presiding Officer. (1) When a Presiding Officer deems himself or herself disqualified to preside in a particular proceeding, he or she shall withdraw by notice on the record and shall notify the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the withdrawal. (2) Whenever, for any reason, any party shall deem the Presiding Officer to be disqualified to preside, or to continue to preside, in a particular proceeding, that party may file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge a motion to disqualify and remove, supported by affidavit(s) setting forth the alleged grounds for disqualification. A copy of the motion and supporting affidavit(s) shall be served by the Chief Administrative Law Judge on the Presiding Officer whose removal is sought. The Presiding Officer shall have ten (10) days from service to reply in writing. Such motion shall not stay the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator. If the Presiding Officer does not disqualify himself or herself, the Administrator will determine the validity of the grounds alleged, either directly or on the report of another Presiding Officer appointed to conduct a hearing for that purpose, and shall in the event of disqualification take appropriate action, by assigning another Presiding Officer or requesting assignment of another Administrative Law Judge through the Office of Hearings. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.43 Evidence. (a) Applicability of Federal Rules of Evidence. The Federal Rules of Evidence shall apply to proceedings held under this part only as a general guide. The Presiding Officer may admit any relevent and probative evidence. (b) Burden of proof. (1) Complaint counsel shall have the burden of sustaining the allegations of any complaint. (2) Any party who is the proponent of a legal and/or factual proposition shall have the burden of sustaining the proposition. (c) Presumptions. A presumption imposes on the party against whom it is directed the burden of going forward with evidence to rebut or meet the presumption, but does not shift to such party the burden of proof in the sense of the risk of nonpersuasion, which remains throughout the hearing upon the party on whom it was originally cast. (d) Admissibility. All relevant and reliable evidence is admissible, but may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by unfair prejudice or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, immateriality, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence. (e) Official notice -(1) Definition. Official notice means use by the Presiding Officer of extra-record facts and legal conclusions drawn from those facts. An officially noticed fact or legal conclusion must be one not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is either (i) generally known within the jurisdiction of the Presiding Officer or (ii) known by the Presiding Officer in areas of his or her expertise; or (iii) capable of accurate and ready determination by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. (2) Method of taking official notice. The Presiding Officer may at any time take official notice upon motion of any party or upon its own initiative. The record shall reflect the facts and conclusions which have been officially noticed. (3) Opportunity to challenge. Any party may upon application in writing rebut officially noticed facts and conclusions by supplementing the record. The Presiding Officer shall determine the permissible extent of this challenge; that is, whether to limit the party to presentation of written materials, whether to allow presentation of testimony, whether to allow cross-examination, or whether to allow oral argument. The Presiding Officer shall grant or deny the application on the record. (f) Objections and exceptions. Objections to evidence shall be timely interposed, shall appear on the record, and shall contain the grounds upon which they are based. Rulings on all objections, and the bases therefore, shall appear on the record. Formal exception to an adverse ruling is not required to preserve the question for appeal. (g) Offer of proof. When an objection to proffered testimony or documentary evidence is sustained, the sponsoring party may make a specific offer, either in writing or orally, of what the party expects to prove by the testimony or the document. When an offer of proof is made, any other party may make a specific offer, either in writing or orally, of what the party expects to present to rebut or contradict the offer of proof. Written offers of proof or of rebuttal, adequately marked for identification, shall accompany the record and be available for consideration by any reviewing authority. &#xA7; 511.44 Expert witnesses. (a) Definition. An expert witness is one who, by reason of education, training, experience, or profession, has peculiar knowlege concerning the matter of science or skill to which his or her testimony relates and from which he or she may draw inferences based upon hypothetically stated facts or from facts involving scientific or technical knowledge. (b) Method of presenting testimony of expert witness. Except as may be otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer, a detailed written statement of the elements of the direct testimony of an expert witness shall be filed on the record and exchanged between the parties no later than 10 days preceding the commencement of the hearing. The statement must contain a full explanation of the methodology underlying any analysis, and a full disclosure of the basis of any opinion. The direct testimony of an expert witness shall not include points not contained in the written statement. A party may waive direct examination of an expert witness by indicating that the written statement be considered the testimony of the witness. In such a case, the written testimony shall be incorporated into the record and shall constitute the testimony of the witness. (c) Cross-examination and redirect examination of expert witness. Cross-examination, redirect examination, and re-cross-examination of an expert witness will proceed in due course based upon the written testimony and any amplifying oral testimony. (d) Failure to file and/or to exchange written statement. Failure to file and/or to exchange the written statement of an expert witness as provided in this section shall deprive the sponsoring party of the use of the expert witness and of the conclusions which that witness would have presented. &#xA7; 511.45 In camera materials. (a) Definition. In camera materials are documents, testimony, or other data which by order of the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as appropriate under this part, are kept confidential and excluded from the public record. Only materials exempt under the Freedom of Information Act may be kept confidential and excluded from the public record. Pursuant to 49 CFR part 512, the Chief Counsel of the NHTSA is responsible for determining whether an alleged confidential business record is exempt from the Freedom of Information Act. The right of the Presiding Officer, the Administrator and reviewing courts to order disclosure of in camera materials is specifically reserved. (b) In camera treatment of documents and testimony. The Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as appropriate under this part, shall have authority, when good cause is found on the record, to order documents or testimony offered in evidence, whether admitted or rejected, to be received and preserved in camera. The order shall specify the length of time for in camera treatment and shall include: (1) A description of the documents and/or testimony; (2) The reasons for granting in camera treatment for the specified length of time. (c) Access and disclosure to parties. (1) The Administrator and Presiding Officer, and their immediate advisory staffs shall have complete access to all in camera materials. All other parties shall also have complete access to all in camera materials, except that these parties may seek access only in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section when: (i) The in camera materials consist of information obtained by the government from persons not parties to the proceeding; or (ii) The in camera materials consist of information provided by one of the parties to the proceeding which is confidential as to the other parties to the proceeding. (2) Any party desiring access to and/or disclosure of the in camera materials specified in paragraph (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section for the preparation and presentation of that party's case shall make a motion which sets forth the justification therefor. The Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as appropriate under this part, may grant such motion on the record for substantial good cause shown and shall enter a protective order prohibiting unnecessary disclosure and requiring other necessary safeguards. The Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as appropriate, may examine the in camera materials and excise portions thereof before disclosing the materials to the moving party. (d) Segregation of in camera materials. In camera materials shall be segregated from the public record and protected from public view. (e) Public release of in camera materials. In camera materials constitute a part of the confidential records of the NHTSA and shall not be released to the public until the expiration of in camera treatment. (f) Reference to in camera materials. In the submission of proposed findings, conclusions, briefs, or other documents, all parties shall refrain from disclosing specific details of in camera materials. Such refraining shall not preclude general references to such materials. To the extent that parties consider it necessary to include specific details of in camera materials, the references shall be incorporated into separate proposed findings, briefs, or other documents marked &#x201C;CONFIDENTIAL, CONTAINS IN CAMERA MATERIAL,&#x201D; which shall be placed in camera and become part of the in camera record. These documents shall be served only on parties accorded access to the in camera materials in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. &#xA7; 511.46 Proposed findings, conclusions, and order. Within a reasonable time after the closing of the record and receipt of the transcript, all parties and participants may, simultaneously, file post-hearing briefs, including proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and a proposed order, together with reasons therefore. The Presiding Officer shall establish a date certain for the filing of the briefs, which shall not exceed 45 days after the close of the record except in unusual circumstances. The briefs shall be in writing, shall be served upon all parties, and shall contain adequate references to the record and authorities relied on. Replies shall be filed within fifteen (15) days of the date for the filing of briefs unless otherwise established by the Presiding Officer. The parties and participants may waive either or both submissions. &#xA7; 511.47 Record. (a) Reporting and transcription. Hearings shall be recorded and transcribed under the supervision of the Presiding Officer by a reporter appointed by the Administrator. The original transcript shall be a part of the record and the official transcript. Copies of transcripts are available from the reporter at a cost not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by contract between the NHTSA and the reporter. (b) Corrections. Corrections of the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance and then only in the manner herein provided. The Presiding Officer may order corrections, either on his or her own motion or on motion of any party. The Presiding Officer shall determine the corrections to be made and so order. Corrections shall be interlineated or otherwise inserted in the official transcript so as not to obliterate the original text. &#xA7; 511.48 Official docket. (a) The official docket in adjudicatory proceedings will be maintained in the Docket Section, Office of the Secretary, Room 4107, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, and will be available for inspection during normal working hours (9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.) Monday through Friday. (b) Fees for production or disclosure of records contained in the official docket shall be levied as prescribed in the Department of Transportation's regulations on Public Availability of Information (49 CFR part 7). [53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.49 Fees. (a) Witnesses. Any person compelled to appear in person in response to a subpoena or notice of oral examination shall be paid at least the same attendance and mileage fees as are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States, in accordance with title 28, U.S.C., section 1821. (b) Responsibility. The fees and mileage referred to in this section shall be paid by the party at whose instance witnesses appear. Subpart F-Decision &#xA7; 511.51 Initial decision. (a) When filed. The Presiding Officer shall endeavor to file an Initial Decision with the Administrator within sixty (60) days of the close of the record, the filing of post-hearing briefs, or the filing of replies thereto, whichever is latest. (b) Content. The Initial Decision shall be based upon a consideration of the entire record and it shall be supported by reliable, probative, and substantial evidence. It shall include: (1) Findings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or bases therefor, upon the material questions of fact, material issues of law, or discretion presented on the record, and should, where practicable, be accompanied by specific page citations to the record and to legal and other materials relied upon. (2) An appropriate order. (c) By whom made. The Initial Decision shall be made and filed by the Presiding Officer who presided over the hearing, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator. (d) Reopening of proceeding by presiding officer; termination of jurisdiction. (1) At any time prior to or concomitant with the filing of the Initial Decision, the Presiding Officer may reopen the proceedings for the reception of further evidence. (2) Except for the correction of clerical errors, the jurisdiction of the Presiding Officer is terminated upon the filing of the Initial Decision, unless and until the proceeding is remanded to the Presiding Officer by the Administrator. &#xA7; 511.52 Adoption of initial decision. The Initial Decision and Order shall become the Final Decision and Order of the Administrator forty (40) days after issuance unless an appeal is noted and perfected or unless review is ordered by the Administrator. Upon the expiration of the fortieth day, the Executive Secretary shall prepare, sign and enter an order adopting the Initial Decision and Order. &#xA7; 511.53 Appeal from initial decision. (a) Who may file notice of intention. Any party may appeal an Initial Decision to the Administrator provided that within ten (10) days after issuance of the Initial Decision such party files and serves a notice of intention to appeal. (b) Appeal brief. The appeal shall be in the form of a brief, filed within forty (40) days after service of the Initial Decision, duly served upon all parties and participants. The appeal brief shall contain, in the order indicated, the following: (1) A subject index of the matters in the brief, with page references, and a table of cases (alphabetically arranged), textbooks, statutes, and other material cited, with page references thereto; (2) A concise statement of the case; (3) A specification of the position urged; (4) The argument, presenting clearly the points of fact and law relied upon in support of the position on each question, with specific page references to the record and the legal or other material relied upon; and (5) A proposed form of order for the Administrator's consideration in lieu of the order contained in the Initial Decision. (c) Answering brief. Within thirty (30) days after service of the appeal brief upon all parties and participants, any party may file an answering brief which shall also contain a subject index, with page references, and a table of cases (alphabetically arranged), textbooks, statutes, and other material cited, with page references thereto. Such brief shall present clearly the points of fact and law relied upon in support of the position taken on each question, with specific page references to the record and legal or other material relied upon. (d) Participant's brief. Within thirty (30) days after service of the appeal brief upon all parties and participants, any participant may file an appeal brief which should contain a subject index, with page references, and a table of authorities being relied upon. Such brief shall present clearly the position taken by the participant on each question raised by the appellant(s). (e) Cross appeal. If a timely notice of appeal is filed by a party, any other party may file a notice of cross-appeal within ten (10) days of the date on which the first notice of appeal was filed. Cross-appeals shall be included in the answering brief and shall conform to the requirements for form, content and filing specified in paragraph (c) of this section. If an appeal is noticed but not perfected, no cross-appeal shall be permitted and the notice of cross-appeal shall be deemed void. (f) Reply brief. A reply brief shall be limited to rebuttal of matters in answering briefs, including matters raised in cross-appeals. A reply brief shall be filed and within fourteen (14) days after service of an answering brief, or on the day preceding the oral argument, whichever comes first. (g) Oral argument. The purpose of an oral argument is to emphasize and clarify the issues. Any party may request oral argument. The Administrator may order oral argument upon request or upon his or her own initiative. All oral arguments shall be reported and transcribed. &#xA7; 511.54 Review of initial decision in absence of appeal. The Administrator may, by order, review a case not otherwise appealed by a party. Thereupon the parties shall and participants may file briefs in accordance with &#xA7; 511.53(b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) except that the Administrator may, in his or her discretion, establish a different briefing schedule in his or her order. Any such order shall issue within forty (40) days of issuance of the Initial Decision. The order shall set forth the issues which the Administrator will review. &#xA7; 511.55 Final decision on appeal or review. (a) Upon appeal from or review of an Initial Decision, the Administrator shall consider such parts of the record as are cited or as may be necessary to resolve the issues presented and, in addition, shall, to the extent necessary or desirable, exercise all the powers which he or she could have exercised if he or she had made the Initial Decision. (b) In rendering his or her decision, the Administrator shall adopt, modify, or set aside the findings, conclusions, and order contained in the Initial Decision, and shall include in his or her Final Decision a statement of the reasons or bases for his or her action. The Administrator shall issue an order reflecting his or her Final Decision. &#xA7; 511.56 Reconsideration. Within twenty (20) days after issuance of a Final Decision and Order, any party may file with the Administrator a petition for reconsideration of such decision or order, setting forth the relief desired and the grounds in support thereof. Any party desiring to oppose such a petition shall file an answer thereto within ten (10) days after service of the petition. The filing of a petition for reconsideration shall not stay the effective date of the Decision and Order or toll the running of any statutory time period affecting the decision or order unless specifically so ordered by the Administrator. &#xA7; 511.57 Effective date of order. (a) Consent orders. An order which has been issued following acceptance of an offer of settlement in accordance with &#xA7; 511.26 becomes effective upon issuance. (b) Litigated orders. All other orders become effective upon the expiration of the statutory period for court review specified in section 508(c)(1) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, title 15, U.S.C. section 2008(c)(1), Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 911, or, if a petition for review has been filed, upon court affirmance of the Administrator's order. Subpart G-Settlement Procedure in Cases of Violation of Average Fuel Economy Standards &#xA7; 511.61 Purpose. This subpart establishes the procedures and requirements necessary to obtain a settlement of a case of violation of section 507 (1) or (2) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended, Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 911 (15 U.S.C. section 2007(1)(2)). No settlement of such cases may be had except as in accordance with this subpart. &#xA7; 511.62 Definitions. Average fuel economy standard means an average fuel economy standard established by or pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act. Insolvency means the inability to meet expenses when due. Settlement means a compromise, modification, or remission of a civil penalty assessed under this part for a violation of an average fuel economy standard. &#xA7; 511.63 Criteria for settlement. Settlement of a case of violation of an average fuel economy standard is discretionary with the Administrator. The Administrator will consider settlement only to the extent: (a) Necessary to prevent the insolvency or bankruptcy of the person seeking settlement, or (b) That the violation of the average fuel economy standard resulted, as shown by the person seeking settlement, from an act of God, a strike, or fire, or (c) That modification of a civil penalty assessed under this part is necessary to prevent lessening of competition, as determined and as certified by the Federal Trade Commission under section 508(b)(4) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 911 (15 U.S.C. section 2008(b)(4)). &#xA7; 511.64 Petitions for settlement; timing, contents. (a) A petition seeking settlement under this subpart must be filed within 30 days after the issuance of a final order assessing a civil penalty for a violation of an average fuel economy standard. (b)(1) A petition for settlement should be sufficient to allow the Administrator to determine that at least one of the criteria set out in &#xA7; 511.63 is satisfied, and that the public interest would be served by settlement. (2) A petition asserting that settlement is necessary to prevent bankruptcy or insolvency must include: (i) Copies of all pertinent financial records, auditor's reports, and documents that show that the imposition of a civil penalty would cause insolvency, or would cause a company to do an act of bankruptcy, and (ii) A payment schedule that would allow the petitioner to pay a civil penalty without resulting in insolvency or an act of bankruptcy. (3) A petition asserting that the violation of the average fuel economy standard was caused by an act of God, fire, or strike must describe corrective and ameliorative steps taken to mitigate the effects of the act of God, fire, or strike. (4) A petition based on a certification by the Federal Trade Commission that modification of the civil penalty assessed is necessary to prevent a substantial lessening of competition must include a certified copy of: (i) The application to the Federal Trade Commission for a certification under section 508(b)(4) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 911 (15 U.S.C. 2008(b)(4)), and materials supporting the application. (ii) The administrative record of any Federal Trade Commission proceeding held in regard to the application, and (iii) The certification by the Federal Trade Commission. (c) It is the policy of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that unconditional settlements of violations of average fuel economy standards are not in the public interest, and absent special and extraordinary circumstances, will not be allowed. All petitions for settlement shall contain a section proposing conditions for settlement. Conditions for settlement can be specific acts designed to lead to the reduction of automotive fuel consumption, which the petitioner is not otherwise required to perform pursuant to any statute, regulation, or administrative or judicial order, such as sponsoring public education programs, advertising, accelerating commercial application of technology, accelerating technology development programs, or making public the results of privately performed studies, surveys, or research activities. &#xA7; 511.65 Public comment. Notice and opportunity for comment are provided to the public in regard to settlements under this part. Subject to &#xA7; 511.66, notice of receipt of a petition for settlement is published in the Federal Register, and a copy of such petitions and any supporting information is placed in a public docket. Any settlement agreed to by the Administrator shall be placed in the public docket for 30 days so that interested persons may comment thereon. No settlement is binding until the completion of that thirty day period. &#xA7; 511.66 Confidential business information. The Administrator shall have authority to segregate from the public docket and to protect from public view information in support of a petition for settlement which has been determined to be confidential business information. The provisions of 15 U.S.C. 2005(d) pertaining to discretionary release by the Administrator of and to limited disclosure of information determined to be confidential business information shall apply to this section. &#xA7; 511.67 Settlement order. If, in accordance with this subpart, the Administrator allows a settlement of a case of violation of an average fuel economy standard, an order of settlement shall be issued, setting out the terms of the settlement, and containing a brief discussion of the factors underlying the exercise of the Administrator's discretion in allowing the settlement, including a discussion of comments received under &#xA7; 511.65. If the Administrator rejects a petition for settlement, the Administrator shall give written notice of the rejection and the reasons for the rejection to the parties and the Presiding Officer. [53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] Subpart H-Appearances; Standards of Conduct &#xA7; 511.71 Who may make appearances. A party or participant may appear in person, or by a duly authorized officer, partner, regular employee, or other agent of this party or participant, or by or with counsel or other duly qualified representative, in any proceeding under this part. &#xA7; 511.72 Authority for representation. Any individual acting in a representative capacity in any adjudicative proceeding may be required by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator to show his or her authority to act in such capacity. A regular employee of a party who appears on behalf of the party shall be required by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator to show his or her authority to so appear. &#xA7; 511.73 Written appearances. (a) Any person who appears in a proceeding shall file a written notice of appearance with the Executive Secretary or deliver a written notice of appearance to the reporter at the hearing, stating for whom the appearance is made and the name, address, and telephone number (including area code) of the person making the appearance and the date of the commencement of the appearance. The written appearance shall be made a part of the record. (b) Any person who has previously appeared in a proceeding may withdraw his or her appearance by filing a written notice of withdrawal of appearance with the Docket Section. The notice of withdrawal shall state the name, address, and telephone number (including area code) of the person withdrawing the appearance, for whom the appearance was made, and the effective date of the withdrawal of the appearance, and such notice of withdrawal shall be filed within five (5) days of the effective date of the withdrawal of the appearance. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15783, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.74 Attorneys. An attorney at law who is admitted to practice before the Federal courts or before the highest court of any State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or Commonwealth of the United States, may practice before the NHTSA. An attorney's own representation that he or she is in good standing before any of such courts shall be sufficient proof thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator. &#xA7; 511.75 Persons not attorneys. (a) Any person who is not an attorney at law may be admitted to appear in an adjudicative proceeding if that person files proof to the satisfaction of the Presiding Officer that he or she possesses the necessary legal, technical or other qualifications to render valuable service in the proceeding and is otherwise competent to advise and assist in the presentation of matters in the proceedings. An application by a person not an attorney at law to appear in a proceeding shall be submitted in writing to the Docket Section, not later than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing in the proceedings. The application shall set forth the applicant's qualifications to appear in the proceedings. (b) No person who is not an attorney at law and whose application has not been approved shall be permitted to appear in the Administration's proceedings. However, this provision shall not apply to any person who appears before the NHTSA on his or her own behalf or on behalf of any corporation, partnership, or association of which the person is a partner, officer, or regular employee. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15784, May 3, 1988] &#xA7; 511.76 Qualifications and standards of conduct. (a) The NHTSA expects all persons appearing in proceedings before it to act with integrity, with respect, and in an ethical manner. Business transacted before and with the NHTSA shall be in good faith. (b) To maintain orderly proceedings, the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, as appropriate under this part, may exclude parties, participants, and their representatives for refusal to comply with directions, continued use of dilatory tactics, refusal to adhere to reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct, failure to act in good faith, or violation of the prohibition against certain ex parte communications. The Presiding Officer may, in addition to the above sanctions, deny access to additional in camera materials when a party or participant publicly releases such materials without authorization. (c) An excluded party, participant, or representative thereof may petition the Administrator to entertain an interlocutory appeal in accordance with &#xA7; 511.24. If, after such appeal, the representative of a party or participant, is excluded, the hearing shall, at the request of the party or participant, be suspended for a reasonable time so that the party or participant may obtain another representative. &#xA7; 511.77 Restrictions as to former members and employees. The postemployee restrictions applicable to former Administrators and NHTSA employees, as set forth in 18 U.S.C. 207, shall govern the activities of former Administrators and NHTSA employees in matters connected with their former duties and responsibilities. &#xA7; 511.78 Prohibited communications. (a) Applicability. This section is applicable during the period commencing with the date of issuance of a complaint and ending upon final NHTSA action in the matter. (b) Definitions. (1) &#x201C;Decision-maker&#x201D; means those NHTSA personnel who render decisions in adjudicative proceedings under this part, or who advise officials who render such decisions, including: (i) The Administrator, (ii) The Administrative Law Judges; (2) &#x201C;Ex parte communication&#x201D; means: (i) Any written communication other than a request for a status report on the proceeding made to a decisionmaker by any person other than a decisionmaker which is not served on all parties, (ii) Any oral communication other than a request for a status report on the proceeding made to a decisionmaker by any person other than a decisionmaker without advance notice to the parties to the proceeding and opportunity for them to be present. (c) Prohibited ex parte communications. Any oral or written ex parte communication relative to the merits of a proceeding under this part is a prohibited ex parte communication, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. (d) Permissible ex parte communications. The following communications shall not be prohibited under this section: (1) Ex parte communications authorized by statute or by this part. (2) Any staff communication concerning judicial review or judicial enforcement in any matter pending before or decided by the Administrator. (e) Procedures for handling prohibited ex parte communication -(1) Prohibited written ex parte communication. To the extent possible, a prohibited written ex parte communication received by any NHTSA employee shall be forwarded to the Docket Section rather than to a decisionmaker. A prohibited written ex parte communication which reaches a decisionmaker shall be forwarded by the decisionmaker to the Docket Section. If the circumstances in which a prohibited ex parte written communication was made are not apparent from the communication itself, a statement describing those circumstances shall be forwarded with the communication. (2) Prohibited oral ex parte communication. (i) If a prohibited oral ex parte communication is made to a decisionmaker, he or she shall advise the person making the communication that the communication is prohibited and shall terminate the discussion. (ii) In the event of a prohibited oral ex parte communication, the decisionmaker shall forward to the Docket Section a dated statement containing such of the following information as is known to him/her: (A) The title and docket number of the proceeding; (B) The name and address of the person making the communication and his/her relationship (if any) to the parties to the proceeding; (C) The date and time of the communication, its duration, and the circumstances (telephone call, personal interview, etc.) under which it was made; (D) A brief statement of the substance of the matters discussed; (E) Whether the person making the communication persisted in doing so after being advised that the communication was prohibited. (3) All communications and statements forwarded to the Docket Section under this section shall be placed in the public file which shall be associated with, but not made a part of, the record of the proceedings to which the communication or statement pertains. (4) Service on parties. The Administrator shall serve a copy of each communication and statement forwarded under this section on all parties to the proceedings. However, if the parties are numerous, or if other circumstances satisfy the Administrator that service of the communication or statement would be unduly burdensome, he or she may, in lieu of service, notify all parties in writing that the communication or statement has been made and filed and that it is available for inspection and copying. (5) Service on maker. The Administrator shall forward to the person who made the prohibited ex parte communication a copy of each communication or statement filed under this section. (f) Effect of ex parte communications. No prohibited ex parte communication shall be considered as part of the record for decision unless introduced into evidence by a party to the proceedings. (g) Sanctions. A party or participant who makes a prohibited ex parte communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions, including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceedings and adverse rulings on the issues which are the subject of the prohibited communication. [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15784, May 3, 1988] Appendix I to Part 511-Final Prehearing Order Case Caption Final Prehearing Order A prehearing conference was held in this matter pursuant to Rule 21 of the Administration's Rules of Practice for Adjudicative Proceedings, on the ____________________ day of ____________________, 19____, at ____ o'clock __ M. Counsel appeared as follows: For the Administration staff: For the Respondent(s): Others: 1. NATURE OF ACTION AND JURISDICTION. This is an action for ____________________ and the jurisdiction of the Administration is involved under Section ____ of Title ____ U.S.C. The jurisdiction of the Administration is (not) disputed. The questions of jurisdiction was decided as follows: 2. STIPULATIONS AND STATEMENTS. The following stipulations and statements were submitted, attached to, and made a part of this order: (a) A comprehensive written stipulation or statement of all uncontested facts; (b) A concise summary of the ultimate facts as claimed by each party. (Complaint Counsel must set forth the claimed facts, specifically; for example, if violation is claimed, Complaint Counsel must assert specifically the acts of violation complained of; each respondent must reply with equal clarity and detail.) (c) Written stipulations or statements setting forth the qualifications of the expert witnesses to be called by each party; (d) A written list or lists of the witnesses whom each party will call, a written list or lists of the additional witnesses whom each party may call, and a statement of the subject on which each witness will testify; (e) An agreed statement of the contested issues of fact and of law, and/or separate statements by each party or any contested issues of fact and law not agreed to; (f) A list of all depositions to be read into evidence and statements of any objections thereto; (g) A list and brief description of any charts, graphs, models, schematic diagrams, and similar objects that will be used in opening statements or closing arguments, but will not be offered in evidence. If any other such objects are to be used by any party, they will be submitted to opposing counsel at least three days prior to hearing. If there is then any objection to their use, the dispute will be submitted to the Presiding Officer at least one day prior to hearing; (h) Written waivers of claims or defenses which have been abandoned by the parties. The foregoing were modified at the pretrial conference as follows: [To be completed at the conference itself. If none, recite &#x201C;none&#x201D;] 3. COMPLAINT COUNSEL'S EVIDENCE. 3.1 The following exhibits were offered by Complaint Counsel, received in evidence, and marked as follows: [Identification number and brief description of each exhibit] The authenticity of these exhibits has been stipulated. 3.2 The following exhibits were offered by the Complaint Counsel and marked for identification. There was reserved to the respondent(s) and party intervenors, if any, the right to object to their receipt in evidence on the grounds stated: [Identification number and brief description of each exhibit. State briefly ground of objection, e.g., competency, relevancy, materiality] 4. RESPONDENT'S EVIDENCE. 4.1 The following exhibits were offered by the respondent(s), received in evidence, and marked as herein indicated: [Identification number and brief description of each exhibit] The authenticity of these exhibits has been stipulated. 4.2 The following exhibits were offered by the respondent(s) and marked for identification. There was reserved to Complaint Counsel and party intervenors, if any, the right to object to their receipt in evidence on the grounds stated: [Identification number and brief description of each exhibit. State briefly ground of objection, e.g., competency, relevancy, materiality] 5. ADDITIONAL ACTIONS. The following additional action was taken: [Amendments to pleadings, agreements of the parties, disposition of motions, separation of issues of liability and remedy, etc., if necessary] 6. LIMITATIONS AND RESERVATIONS. 6.1 Each of the parties has the right to further supplement the list of witnesses not later than ten (10) days prior to trial by furnishing opposing counsel with the name and address of the witness and general subject matter of his or her testimony and filing a supplement to this pretrial order. Thereafter additional witnesses may be added only after application to the Presiding Officer, for good cause shown. 6.2 Rebuttal witnesses not listed in the exhibits to this order may be called only if the necessity of their testimony could not reasonably be foreseen ten (10) days prior to trial. If it appears to counsel at any time before trial that such rebuttal witnesses will be called, notice will immediately be given to opposing counsel and the Presiding Officer. 6.3 The probable length of hearing is ________ days. The hearings will be commenced on the ____ day of __________, 19____, at ____ o'clock __ M. at (location) __________. 6.4 Prehearing briefs will be filed not later than 5:00 p.m. on ________. (Insert date not later than ten (10) days prior to hearing.) All anticipated legal questions, including those relating to the admissibility of evidence, must be covered by prehearing briefs. This prehearing order has been formulated after a conference at which counsel for the respective parties appeared. Reasonable opportunity has been afforded counsel for corrections or additions prior to signing. It will control the course of the hearing, and it may not be amended except by consent of the parties and the Presiding Officer, or by order of the Presiding Officer to prevent manifest injustice. (Presiding Officer's Name) (Presiding Officer's Title) APPROVED AS TO FORM AND SUBSTANCE Date: __________. Complaint Counsel. Attorney for Respondent(s). Note: Where intervenors appear pursuant to &#xA7; 511.17 the prehearing order may be suitably modified; the initial page may be modified to reflect the intervention.