PART 177-CARRIAGE BY PUBLIC HIGHWAY Authority: 49 U.S.C. 5101-5128; sec. 112 of Pub. L. 103-311, 108 Stat. 1673, 1676 (1994); sec. 32509 of Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405, 805 (2012); 49 CFR 1.81 and 1.97. Subpart A-General Information and Regulations &#xA7; 177.800 Purpose and scope of this part and responsibility for compliance and training. (a) Purpose and scope. This part prescribes requirements, in addition to those contained in parts 171, 172, 173, 178 and 180 of this subchapter, that are applicable to the acceptance and transportation of hazardous materials by private, common, or contract carriers by motor vehicle. (b) Responsibility for compliance. Unless this subchapter specifically provides that another person shall perform a particular duty, each carrier, including a connecting carrier, shall perform the duties specified and comply with all applicable requirements in this part and shall ensure its hazmat employees receive training in relation thereto. (c) Responsibility for training. A carrier may not transport a hazardous material by motor vehicle unless each of its hazmat employees involved in that transportation is trained as required by this part and subpart H of part 172 of this subchapter. (d) No unnecessary delay in movement of shipments. All shipments of hazardous materials must be transported without unnecessary delay, from and including the time of commencement of the loading of the hazardous material until its final unloading at destination. [Amdt. 177-79, 57 FR 20954, May 15, 1992, as amended by Amdt.177-86, 61 FR 18933, Apr. 29, 1996] &#xA7; 177.801 Unacceptable hazardous materials shipments. No person may accept for transportation or transport by motor vehicle a forbidden material or hazardous material that is not prepared in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter. [Amdt. 177-87, 61 FR 27175, May 30, 1996] &#xA7; 177.802 Inspection. Records, equipment, packagings and containers under the control of a motor carrier, insofar as they affect safety in transportation of hazardous materials by motor vehicle, must be made available for examination and inspection by a duly authorized representative of the Department. [Amdt. 177-71, 54 FR 25015, June 12, 1989] &#xA7; 177.804 Compliance with Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations. (a) General. Motor carriers and other persons subject to this part must comply with 49 CFR part 383 and 49 CFR parts 390 through 397 (excluding &#xA7;&#xA7; 397.3 and 397.9) to the extent those regulations apply. (b) Additional prohibitions. A person transporting a quantity of hazardous materials requiring placarding under 49 CFR part 172 or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin in 42 CFR part 73: (1) Must comply with the safe clearance requirements for highway-rail grade crossings in &#xA7; 392.12 of this title; (2) May not engage in, allow, or require texting while driving, in accordance with &#xA7; 392.80 of this title; and (3) May not engage in, allow, or require the use of a hand-held mobile telephone while driving, in accordance with &#xA7; 392.82 of this title. [78 FR 58923, Sept. 25, 2013] &#xA7; 177.810 Vehicular tunnels. Except as regards Class 7 (radioactive) materials, nothing contained in parts 170-189 of this subchapter shall be so construed as to nullify or supersede regulations established and published under authority of State statute or municipal ordinance regarding the kind, character, or quantity of any hazardous material permitted by such regulations to be transported through any urban vehicular tunnel used for mass transportation. [Amdt. 177-52, 46 FR 5316, Jan. 19, 1981, as amended by Amdt. 177-78, 55 FR 52710, Dec. 21, 1990; 62 FR 51561, Oct. 1, 1997] &#xA7; 177.816 Driver training. (a) In addition to the training requirements of &#xA7; 177.800, no carrier may transport, or cause to be transported, a hazardous material unless each hazmat employee who will operate a motor vehicle has been trained in the applicable requirements of 49 CFR parts 390 through 397 and the procedures necessary for the safe operation of that motor vehicle. Driver training shall include the following subjects: (1) Pre-trip safety inspection; (2) Use of vehicle controls and equipment, including operation of emergency equipment; (3) Operation of vehicle, including turning, backing, braking, parking, handling, and vehicle characteristics including those that affect vehicle stability, such as effects of braking and curves, effects of speed on vehicle control, dangers associated with maneuvering through curves, dangers associated with weather or road conditions that a driver may experience (e.g., blizzards, mountainous terrain, high winds), and high center of gravity; (4) Procedures for maneuvering tunnels, bridges, and railroad crossings; (5) Requirements pertaining to attendance of vehicles, parking, smoking, routing, and incident reporting; and (6) Loading and unloading of materials, including- (i) Compatibility and segregation of cargo in a mixed load; (ii) Package handling methods; and (iii) Load securement. (b) Specialized requirements for cargo tanks and portable tanks. In addition to the training requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, each person who operates a cargo tank or a vehicle with a portable tank with a capacity of 1,000 gallons or more must receive training applicable to the requirements of this subchapter and have the appropriate State-issued commercial driver's license required by 49 CFR part 383. Specialized training shall include the following: (1) Operation of emergency control features of the cargo tank or portable tank; (2) Special vehicle handling characteristics, including: high center of gravity, fluid-load subject to surge, effects of fluid-load surge on braking, characteristic differences in stability among baffled, unbaffled, and multi-compartmented tanks; and effects of partial loads on vehicle stability; (3) Loading and unloading procedures; (4) The properties and hazards of the material transported; and (5) Retest and inspection requirements for cargo tanks. (c) The training required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be satisfied by compliance with the current requirements for a Commercial Driver's License (CDL) with a tank vehicle or hazardous materials endorsement. (d) Training required by paragraph (b) of this section must conform to the requirements of &#xA7; 172.704 of this subchapter with respect to frequency and recordkeeping. [Amdt. 177-79, 57 FR 20954, May 15, 1992, as amended by Amdt. 177-79, 58 FR 5852, Jan. 22, 1993] &#xA7; 177.817 Shipping papers. (a) General requirements. A person may not accept a hazardous material for transportation or transport a hazardous material by highway unless that person has received a shipping paper prepared in accordance with part 172 of this subchapter or the material is excepted from shipping paper requirements under this subchapter. A subsequent carrier may not transport a hazardous material unless it is accompanied by a shipping paper prepared in accordance with part 172 of this subchapter, except for &#xA7; 172.204, which is not required. (b) Shipper certification. An initial carrier may not accept a hazardous material offered for transportation unless the shipping paper describing the material includes a shipper's certification which meets the requirements in &#xA7; 172.204 of this subchapter. Except for a hazardous waste, the certification is not required for shipments to be transported entirely by private carriage and for bulk shipments to be transported in a cargo tank supplied by the carrier. (c) Requirements when interlining with carriers by rail. A motor carrier shall mark on the shipping paper required by this section, if it offers or delivers a freight container or transport vehicle to a rail carrier for further transportation: (1) A description of the freight container or transport vehicle; and (2) The kind of placard affixed to the freight container or transport vehicle. (d) Applicability. This section does not apply to a material that is excepted from shipping paper requirements as specified in &#xA7; 172.200 of this subchapter. (e) Shipping paper accessibility-accident or inspection. A driver of a motor vehicle containing hazardous material, and each carrier using such a vehicle, shall ensure that the shipping paper required by this section is readily available to, and recognizable by, authorities in the event of accident or inspection. Specifically, the driver and the carrier shall: (1) Clearly distinguish the shipping paper, if it is carried with other shipping papers or other papers of any kind, by either distinctively tabbing it or by having it appear first; and (2) Store the shipping paper as follows: (i) When the driver is at the vehicle's controls, the shipping paper shall be: (A) Within his immediate reach while he is restrained by the lap belt; and (B) either readily visible to a person entering the driver's compartment or in a holder which is mounted to the inside of the door on the driver's side of the vehicle. (ii) When the driver is not at the vehicle's controls, the shipping paper shall be: (A) In a holder which is mounted to the inside of the door on the driver's side of the vehicle; or (B) on the driver's seat in the vehicle. (f) Retention of shipping papers. Each person receiving a shipping paper required by this section must retain a copy or an electronic image thereof, that is accessible at or through its principal place of business and must make the shipping paper available, upon request, to an authorized official of a Federal, State, or local government agency at reasonable times and locations. For a hazardous waste, the shipping paper copy must be retained for three years after the material is accepted by the initial carrier. For all other hazardous materials, the shipping paper copy must be retained for one year after the material is accepted by the carrier. Each shipping paper copy must include the date of acceptance by the carrier. A motor carrier (as defined in &#xA7; 390.5 of subchapter B of chapter III of subtitle B) using a shipping paper without change for multiple shipments of one or more hazardous materials having the same shipping name and identification number may retain a single copy of the shipping paper, instead of a copy for each shipment made, if the carrier also retains a record of each shipment made that includes shipping name, identification number, quantity transported, and date of shipment. [Amdt. 177-35, 41 FR 16130, Apr. 15, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 177-35A, 41 FR 40691, Sept. 20, 1976; Amdt. 177-48, 45 FR 47670, Nov. 10, 1980; Amdt. 177-65, 50 FR 11055, Mar. 19, 1985; Amdt. 177-72, 53 FR 17160, May 13, 1988; 67 FR 46128, July 12, 2002; 67 FR 66574, Nov. 1, 2002; 68 FR 19277, Apr. 18, 2003; 68 FR 57633, Oct. 6, 2003; 70 FR 73165, Dec. 9, 2005; 87 FR 79784, Dec. 27, 2022] &#xA7; 177.823 Movement of motor vehicles in emergency situations. (a) A carrier may not move a transport vehicle containing a hazardous material unless the vehicle is marked and placarded in accordance with part 172 or as authorized in &#xA7; 171.12a of this subchapter, or unless, in an emergency: (1) The vehicle is escorted by a representative of a state or local government; (2) The carrier has permission from the Department; or (3) Movement of the transport vehicle is necessary to protect life or property. (b) Disposition of contents of cargo tank when unsafe to continue. In the event of a leak in a cargo tank of such a character as to make further transportation unsafe, the leaking vehicle should be removed from the traveled portion of the highway and every available means employed for the safe disposal of the leaking material by preventing, so far as practicable, its spread over a wide area, such as by digging trenches to drain to a hole or depression in the ground, diverting the liquid away from streams or sewers if possible, or catching the liquid in containers if practicable. Smoking, and any other source of ignition, in the vicinity of a leaking cargo tank is not permitted. (c) Movement of leaking cargo tanks. A leaking cargo tank may be transported only the minimum distance necessary to reach a place where the contents of the tank or compartment may be disposed of safely. Every available means must be utilized to prevent the leakage or spillage of the liquid upon the highway. [Amdt. 177-35, 41 FR 16130, Apr. 15, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 177-67, 50 FR 41521, Oct. 11, 1985; Amdt. 177-86, 61 FR 18933, Apr. 29, 1996] Subpart B-Loading and Unloading Note: For prohibited loading and storage of hazardous materials, see &#xA7; 177.848. &#xA7; 177.834 General requirements. (a) Packages secured in a motor vehicle. Any package containing any hazardous material, not permanently attached to a motor vehicle, must be secured against shifting, including relative motion between packages, within the vehicle on which it is being transported, under conditions normally incident to transportation. Packages having valves or other fittings must be loaded in a manner to minimize the likelihood of damage during transportation. (b) Each package containing a hazardous material bearing package orientation markings prescribed in &#xA7; 172.312 of this subchapter must be loaded on a transport vehicle or within a freight container in accordance with such markings and must remain in the correct position indicated by the markings during transportation. (c) No smoking while loading or unloading. Smoking on or about any motor vehicle while loading or unloading any Class 1 (explosive), Class 3 (flammable liquid), Class 4 (flammable solid), Class 5 (oxidizing), or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials is forbidden. (d) Keep fire away, loading and unloading. Extreme care shall be taken in the loading or unloading of any Class 1 (explosive), Class 3 (flammable liquid), Class 4 (flammable solid), Class 5 (oxidizing), or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials into or from any motor vehicle to keep fire away and to prevent persons in the vicinity from smoking, lighting matches, or carrying any flame or lighted cigar, pipe, or cigarette. (e) Handbrake set while loading and unloading. No hazardous material shall be loaded into or on, or unloaded from, any motor vehicle unless the handbrake be securely set and all other reasonable precautions be taken to prevent motion of the motor vehicle during such loading or unloading process. (f) Use of tools, loading and unloading. No tools which are likely to damage the effectiveness of the closure of any package or other container, or likely adversely to affect such package or container, shall be used for the loading or unloading of any Class 1 (explosive) material or other dangerous article. (g) [Reserved] (h) Precautions concerning containers in transit; fueling road units. Reasonable care should be taken to prevent undue rise in temperature of containers and their contents during transit. There must be no tampering with such container or the contents thereof nor any discharge of the contents of any container between point of origin and point of billed destination. Discharge of contents of any container, other than a cargo tank or IM portable tank, must not be made prior to removal from the motor vehicle. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall be so construed as to prohibit the fueling of machinery or vehicles used in road construction or maintenance. (i) Attendance requirements -(1) Loading. A cargo tank must be attended by a qualified person at all times when it is being loaded. The person who is responsible for loading the cargo tank is also responsible for ensuring that it is so attended. (2) Unloading. A motor carrier who transports hazardous materials by a cargo tank must ensure that the cargo tank is attended by a qualified person at all times during unloading. However, the carrier's obligation to ensure attendance during unloading ceases when: (i) The carrier's obligation for transporting the materials is fulfilled; (ii) The cargo tank has been placed upon the consignee's premises; and (iii) The motive power has been removed from the cargo tank and removed from the premises. (3) A qualified person &#x201C;attends&#x201D; the loading or unloading of a cargo tank only if, throughout the process: (i) Except for unloading operations subject to &#xA7;&#xA7; 177.837(d) and 177.840(p) and (q), the qualified person is within 7.62 m (25 feet) of the cargo tank. The qualified person attending the unloading of a cargo tank must be alert and have an unobstructed view of the cargo tank and delivery hose to the maximum extent practicable during the unloading operation; or (ii) The qualified person observes all loading or unloading operations by means of video cameras and monitors or instrumentation and signaling systems such as sensors, alarms, and electronic surveillance equipment located at a remote control station, and the loading or unloading system is equipped as follows: (A) For a video monitoring system used to meet the attendance requirement, the camera must be mounted so as to provide an unobstructed view of all equipment involved in the loading or unloading operations, including all valves, hoses, domes, and pressure relief devices; (B) For an instrumentation and signaling system used to meet the attendance requirement, the system must provide a surveillance capability at least equal to that of a human observer; (C) Upon loss of video monitoring capability or instrumentation and signaling systems, loading or unloading operations must be immediately terminated; (D) Shut-off valves operable from the remote control station must be provided; (E) In the event of a remote system failure, a qualified person must immediately resume attending the loading or unloading of the cargo tank as provided in paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this section; (F) A containment area must be provided capable of holding the contents of as many cargo tank motor vehicles as might be loaded at any single time; and (G) A qualified person must personally conduct a visual inspection of each cargo tank motor vehicle after it is loaded, prior to departure, for any damage that may have occurred during loading; or (iii) Hoses used in the loading or unloading operations are equipped with cable-connected wedges, plungers, or flapper valves located at each end of the hose, able to stop the flow of product from both the source and the receiving tank within one second without human intervention in the event of a hose rupture, disconnection, or separation. (A) Prior to each use, each hose must be inspected to ensure that it is of sound quality, without defects detectable through visual observation; and (B) The loading or unloading operations must be physically inspected by a qualified person at least once every sixty (60) minutes. (4) A person is &#x201C;qualified&#x201D; if he has been made aware of the nature of the hazardous material which is to be loaded or unloaded, has been instructed on the procedures to be followed in emergencies, and except for persons observing loading or unloading operations by means of video cameras and monitors or instrumentation and signaling systems such as sensors, alarms, and electronic surveillance equipment located at a remote control station and persons inspecting hoses in accordance with paragraph (i)(3)(iii) of this section, is authorized to move the cargo tank, and has the means to do so. (j) Except for a cargo tank conforming to &#xA7; 173.29(b)(2) of this subchapter, a person may not drive a cargo tank motor vehicle containing a hazardous material regardless of quantity unless: (1) All manhole closures are closed and secured; and (2) All valves and other closures in liquid discharge systems are closed and free of leaks, except external emergency self-closing valves on MC 338 cargo tanks containing the residue of cryogenic liquids may remain either open or closed during transit. (k) [Reserved] (l) Use of cargo heaters when transporting certain hazardous material. Transportation includes loading, carrying, and unloading. (1) When transporting Class 1 (explosive) materials. A motor vehicle equipped with a cargo heater of any type may transport Class 1 (explosive) materials only if the cargo heater is rendered inoperable by: (i) Draining or removing the cargo heater fuel tank; and (ii) disconnecting the heater's power source. (2) When transporting certain flammable material -(i) Use of combustion cargo heaters. A motor vehicle equipped with a combustion cargo heater may be used to transport Class 3 (flammable liquid) or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials only subject to the following conditions: (A) The combustion cargo heater is powered by diesel fuel or propane and each of the following requirements are met: ( 1 ) Electrical apparatus in the cargo compartment is non-sparking or explosion proof. ( 2 ) There is no combustion apparatus in the cargo compartment. ( 3 ) There is no connection for return of air from the cargo compartment to the combustion apparatus. ( 4 ) The heating system will not heat any part of the cargo to more than 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). ( 5 ) Heater requirements under &#xA7; 393.77 of this title are complied with. ( 6 ) The heater unit and its fuel supply must be externally mounted on the truck or trailer. ( 7 ) The heater unit must retain combustion in a sealed combustion chamber. ( 8 ) The heater unit must utilize outside air for combustion (air from the cargo space cannot be used for combustion). ( 9 ) Heater unit combustion gases must be exhausted to the outside of the truck or trailer. (B) The combustion cargo heater is a catalytic heater and each of the following requirements are met: ( 1 ) The heater's surface temperature cannot exceed 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F)-either on a thermostatically controlled heater or on a heater without thermostatic control when the outside or ambient temperature is 16 &#xB0;C (61 &#xB0;F) or less. ( 2 ) The heater is not ignited in a loaded vehicle. ( 3 ) There is no flame, either on the catalyst or anywhere in the heater. ( 4 ) The manufacturer has certified that the heater meets the requirements under paragraph (l)(2)(i)(B) of this section by permanently marking the heater &#x201C;MEETS DOT REQUIREMENTS FOR CATALYTIC HEATERS USED WITH FLAMMABLE LIQUID AND GAS.&#x201D; ( 5 ) The heater is also marked &#x201C; DO NOT LOAD INTO OR USE IN CARGO COMPARTMENTS CONTAINING FLAMMABLE LIQUID OR GAS IF FLAME IS VISIBLE ON CATALYST OR IN HEATER.&#x201D; ( 6 ) Heater requirements under &#xA7; 393.77 of this title are complied with. (ii) [Reserved] (iii) Restrictions on automatic cargo-space-heating temperature control devices. Restrictions on these devices have two dimensions: Restrictions upon use and restrictions which apply when the device must not be used. (A) Use restrictions. An automatic cargo-space-heating temperature control device may be used when transporting Class 3 (flammable liquid) or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials only if each of the following requirements is met: ( 1 ) Electrical apparatus in the cargo compartment is nonsparking or explosion proof. ( 2 ) There is no combustion apparatus in the cargo compartment. ( 3 ) There is no connection for return of air from the cargo compartment to the combustion apparatus. ( 4 ) The heating system will not heat any part of the cargo to more than 54 &#xB0;C (129 &#xB0;F). ( 5 ) Heater requirements under &#xA7; 393.77 of this title are complied with. (B) Protection against use. Class 3 (flammable liquid) or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials may be transported by a vehicle, which is equipped with an automatic cargo-space-heating temperature control device that does not meet each requirement of paragraph (l)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, only if the device is first rendered inoperable, as follows: ( 1 ) Each cargo heater fuel tank, if other than LPG, must be emptied or removed. ( 2 ) Each LPG fuel tank for automatic temperature control equipment must have its discharge valve closed and its fuel feed line disconnected. (m) Tanks constructed and maintained in compliance with Spec. 106A or 110A (&#xA7;&#xA7; 179.300, 179.301 of this subchapter) that are authorized for the shipment of hazardous materials by highway in part 173 of this subchapter must be carried in accordance with the following requirements: (1) Tanks must be securely chocked or clamped on vehicles to prevent any shifting. (2) Equipment suitable for handling a tank must be provided at any point where a tank is to be loaded upon or removed from a vehicle. (3) No more than two cargo carrying vehicles may be in the same combination of vehicles. (4) Compliance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 174.200 and 174.204 of this subchapter for combination rail freight, highway shipments and for trailer-on-flat-car service is required. (n) Specification 56, 57, IM 101, and IM 102 portable tanks, when loaded, may not be stacked on each other nor placed under other freight during transportation by motor vehicle. (o) Unloading of IM and UN portable tanks. No person may unload an IM or UN portable tank while it remains on a transport vehicle with the motive power unit attached except under the following conditions: (1) The unloading operation must be attended by a qualified person in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (i) of this section. The person performing unloading functions must be trained in handling emergencies that may occur during the unloading operation. (2) Prior to unloading, the operator of the vehicle on which the portable tank is transported must ascertain that the conditions of this paragraph (o) are met. (3) An IM or UN portable tank equipped with a bottom outlet as authorized in Column (7) of the &#xA7; 172.101 Table of this subchapter by assignment of a T Code in the appropriate proper shipping name entry, and that contains a liquid hazardous material of Class 3, PG I or II, or PG III with a flash point of less than 100 &#xB0;F (38 &#xB0;C); Division 5.1, PG I or II; or Division 6.1, PG I or II, must conform to the outlet requirements in &#xA7; 178.275(d)(3) of this subchapter. [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.834, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 177.835 Class 1 (explosive) materials. (See also &#xA7; 177.834 (a) to (j).) (a) Engine stopped. No Class 1 (explosive) materials may be loaded into or on or be unloaded from any motor vehicle with the engine running, except that the engine of a multipurpose bulk truck (see paragraph (d) of this section) and the engine of a cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a single bulk hazardous material for blasting may be used for the operation of the pumping equipment of the vehicle during loading or unloading. (b) Care in loading, unloading, or other handling of Class 1 (explosive) materials. No bale hooks or other metal tools shall be used for the loading, unloading, or other handling of Class 1 (explosive) materials, nor shall any package or other container of Class 1 (explosive) materials, except barrels or kegs, be rolled. No packages of Class 1 (explosive) materials shall be thrown or dropped during process of loading or unloading or handling of Class 1 (explosive) materials. Special care shall be exercised to the end that packages or other containers containing Class 1 (explosive) materials shall not catch fire from sparks or hot gases from the exhaust tailpipe. (1) Whenever tarpaulins are used for covering Class 1 (explosive) materials, they shall be secured by means of rope, wire, or other equally efficient tie downs. Class 1 (explosive) materials placards or markings required by &#xA7; 177.823 shall be secured, in the appropriate locations, directly to the equipment transporting the Class 1 (explosive) materials. If the vehicle is provided with placard boards, the placards must be applied to these boards. (2) [Reserved] (c) Class 1 (explosive) materials on vehicles in combination. Division 1.1 or 1.2 (explosive) materials may not be loaded into or carried on any vehicle or a combination of vehicles if: (1) More than two cargo carrying vehicles are in the combination; (2) Any full trailer in the combination has a wheel base of less than 184 inches; (3) Any vehicle in the combination is a cargo tank which is required to be marked or placarded under &#xA7; 177.823; or (4) The other vehicle in the combination contains any: (i) Substances, explosive, n.o.s., Division 1.1A (explosive) material (Initiating explosive), (ii) Packages of Class 7 (radioactive) materials bearing &#x201C;Yellow III&#x201D; labels, (iii) Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A or Hazard Zone B materials or Division 6.1, PG I, Hazard Zone A materials, or (iv) Hazardous materials in a portable tank or a DOT specification 106A or 110A tank. (d) Multipurpose bulk trucks. When &#xA7; 172.101 of this subchapter specifies that Class 1 (explosive) materials may be transported in accordance with &#xA7; 173.66 of this subchapter (per special provision 148 in &#xA7; 172.102(c)(1)), these materials may be transported on the same vehicle with Division 5.1 (oxidizing) materials, or Class 8 (corrosive) materials, and/or Combustible Liquid, n.o.s., NA1993 only under the conditions and requirements set forth in IME Standard 23 (IBR, see &#xA7; 171.7 of this subchapter) and paragraph (g) of this section. In addition, the segregation requirements in &#xA7; 177.848 do not apply. (e) No sharp projections inside body of vehicles. No motor vehicle transporting any kind of Class 1 (explosive) material shall have on the interior of the body in which the Class 1 (explosive) materials are contained, any inwardly projecting bolts, screws, nails, or other inwardly projecting parts likely to produce damage to any package or container of Class 1 (explosive) materials during the loading or unloading process or in transit. (f) Class 1 (explosive) materials vehicles, floors tight and lined. Motor vehicles transporting Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive) materials shall have tight floors; shall have that portion of the interior in contact with the load lined with either non-metallic material or non-ferrous metals, except that the lining is not required for truck load shipments loaded by the Departments of the Army, Navy or Air Force of the United States Government provided the Class 1 (explosive) materials are of such nature that they are not liable to leakage of dust, powder, or vapor which might become the cause of an explosion. The interior of the cargo space must be in good condition so that there will not be any likelihood of containers being damaged by exposed bolts, nuts, broken side panels or floor boards, or any similar projections. (g) No detonator assembly or booster with detonator may be transported on the same motor vehicle with any Division 1.1, 1.2 or 1.3 material (except other detonator assemblies, boosters with detonators or detonators), detonating cord Division 1.4 material or Division 1.5 material. No detonator may be transported on the same motor vehicle with any Division 1.1, 1.2 or 1.3 material (except other detonators, detonator assemblies or boosters with detonators), detonating cord Division 1.4 material or Division 1.5 material unless- (1) It is packed in a specification MC 201 (&#xA7; 178.318 of this subchapter) container; or (2) The package conforms with requirements prescribed in &#xA7; 173.62 of this subchapter, and its use is restricted to instances when- (i) There is no Division 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 or 1.5 material loaded on the motor vehicle; and (ii) A separation of 61 cm (24 inches) is maintained between each package of detonators and each package of detonating cord; or (3) It is packed and loaded in accordance with a method approved by the Associate Administrator. One approved method requires that- (i) The detonators are in packagings as prescribed in &#xA7; 173.63 of this subchapter which in turn are loaded into suitable containers or separate compartments; and (ii) That both the detonators and the container or compartment meet the requirements of the IME Standard 22 (IBR, see &#xA7; 171.7 of this subchapter). (h) Lading within body or covered tailgate closed. Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, dealing with the transportation of liquid nitroglycerin, desensitized liquid nitroglycerin or diethylene glycol dinitrate, all of that portion of the lading of any motor vehicle which consists of Class 1 (explosive) materials shall be contained entirely within the body of the motor vehicle or within the horizontal outline thereof, without overhang or projection of any part of the load and if such motor vehicle has a tailboard or tailgate, it shall be closed and secured in place during such transportation. Every motor vehicle transporting Class 1 (explosive) materials must either have a closed body or have the body thereof covered with a tarpaulin, and in either event care must be taken to protect the load from moisture and sparks, except that subject to other provisions of these regulations, Class 1 (explosive) materials other than black powder may be transported on flat-bed vehicles if the explosive portion of the load on each vehicle is packed in fire and water resistant containers or covered with a fire and water resistant tarpaulin. (i) Class 1 (explosive) materials to be protected against damage by other lading. No motor vehicle transporting any Class 1 (explosive) material may transport as a part of its load any metal or other articles or materials likely to damage such Class 1 (explosive) material or any package in which it is contained, unless the different parts of such load be so segregated or secured in place in or on the motor vehicle and separated by bulkheads or other suitable means as to prevent such damage. (j) Transfer of Class 1 (explosive) materials en route. No Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive) material shall be transferred from one container to another, or from one motor vehicle to another vehicle, or from another vehicle to a motor vehicle, on any public highway, street, or road, except in case of emergency. In such cases red electric lanterns, red emergency reflectors or red flags shall be set out in the manner prescribed for disabled or stopped motor vehicles. (See Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, part 392 of this title.) In any event, all practicable means, in addition to these hereinbefore prescribed, shall be taken to protect and warn other users of the highway against the hazard involved in any such transfer or against the hazard occasioned by the emergency making such transfer necessary. (k) Attendance of Class 1 (explosive) materials. Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials that are stored during transportation in commerce must be attended and afforded surveillance in accordance with 49 CFR 397.5. A safe haven that conforms to NFPA 498 (IBR, see &#xA7; 171.7 of the subchapter) constitutes a federally approved safe haven for the unattended storage of vehicles containing Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 materials. [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.835, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 177.837 Class 3 (flammable liquid) materials. (See also &#xA7; 177.834 (a) to (j).) (a) Engine stopped. Unless the engine of a cargo tank motor vehicle is to be used for the operation of a pump, Class 3 material may not be loaded into, or on, or unloaded from any cargo tank motor vehicle while the engine is running. The diesel engine of a cargo tank motor vehicle may be left running during the loading and unloading of a Class 3 material if the ambient atmospheric temperature is at or below &#x2212;12 &#xB0;C (10 &#xB0;F). (b) Bonding and grounding containers other than cargo tanks prior to and during transfer of lading. For containers which are not in metallic contact with each other, either metallic bonds or ground conductors shall be provided for the neutralization of possible static charges prior to and during transfers of Class 3 (flammable liquid) materials between such containers. Such bonding shall be made by first connecting an electric conductor to the container to be filled and subsequently connecting the conductor to the container from which the liquid is to come, and not in any other order. To provide against ignition of vapors by discharge of static electricity, the latter connection shall be made at a point well removed from the opening from which the Class 3 (flammable liquid) material is to be discharged. (c) Bonding and grounding cargo tanks before and during transfer of lading. (1) When a cargo tank is loaded through an open filling hole, one end of a bond wire shall be connected to the stationary system piping or integrally connected steel framing, and the other end to the shell of the cargo tank to provide a continuous electrical connection. (If bonding is to the framing, it is essential that piping and framing be electrically interconnected.) This connection must be made before any filling hole is opened, and must remain in place until after the last filling hole has been closed. Additional bond wires are not needed around All-Metal flexible or swivel joints, but are required for nonmetallic flexible connections in the stationary system piping. When a cargo tank is unloaded by a suction-piping system through an open filling hole of the cargo tank, electrical continuity shall be maintained from cargo tank to receiving tank. (2) When a cargo tank is loaded or unloaded through a vapor-tight (not open hole) top or bottom connection, so that there is no release of vapor at a point where a spark could occur, bonding or grounding is not required. Contact of the closed connection must be made before flow starts and must not be broken until after the flow is completed. (3) Bonding or grounding is not required when a cargo tank is unloaded through a nonvapor-tight connection into a stationary tank provided the metallic filling connection is maintained in contact with the filling hole. (d) Unloading combustible liquids. For a cargo tank unloading a material meeting the definition for combustible liquid in &#xA7; 173.150(f) of this subchapter, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within 45.72 meters (150 feet) of the cargo tank and 7.62 meters (25 feet) of the delivery hose and must observe both the cargo tank and the receiving container at least once every five minutes during unloading operations that take more than five minutes to complete. [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.837, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 177.838 Class 4 (flammable solid) materials, Class 5 (oxidizing) materials, and Division 4.2 (self-heating and pyrophoric liquid) materials. (See also &#xA7; 177.834 (a) to (j).) (a) Lading within body or covered; tailgate closed; pick-up and delivery. All of that portion of the lading of any motor vehicle transporting Class 4 (flammable solid) or Class 5 (oxidizing) materials shall be contained entirely within the body of the motor vehicle and shall be covered by such body, by tarpaulins, or other suitable means, and if such motor vehicle has a tailboard or tailgate, it shall be closed and secured in place during such transportation: Provided, however, That the provisions of this paragraph need not apply to &#x201C;pick-up and delivery&#x201D; motor vehicles when such motor vehicles are used in no other transportation than in and about cities, towns, or villages. Shipment in water-tight bulk containers need not be covered by a tarpaulin or other means. (b) Articles to be kept dry. Special care shall be taken in the loading of any motor vehicle with Class 4 (flammable solid) or Class 5 (oxidizing) materials which are likely to become hazardous to transport when wet, to keep them from being wetted during the loading process and to keep them dry during transit. Special care shall also be taken in the loading of any motor vehicle with Class 4 (flammable solid) or Class 5 (oxidizing) materials, which are likely to become more hazardous to transport by wetting, to keep them from being wetted during the loading process and to keep them dry during transit. Examples of such dangerous materials are charcoal screenings, ground, crushed, or pulverized charcoal, and lump charcoal. (c) Lading ventilation, precautions against spontaneous combustion. Whenever a motor carrier has knowledge concerning the hazards of spontaneous combustion or heating of any article to be loaded on a motor vehicle, such article shall be so loaded as to afford sufficient ventilation of the load to provide reasonable assurance against fire from this cause; and in such a case the motor vehicle shall be unloaded as soon as practicable after reaching its destination. Charcoal screenings, or ground, crushed, granulated, or pulverized charcoal, in bags, shall be so loaded that the bags are laid horizontally in the motor vehicle, and so piled that there will be spaces for effective air circulation, which spaces shall not be less than 10 cm (3.9 inches) wide; and air spaces shall be maintained between rows of bags. Bags shall not be piled closer than 15 cm (5.9 inches) from the top of any motor vehicle with a closed body. (d)-(e) [Reserved] (f) Nitrates, except ammonium nitrate having organic coating, must be loaded in closed or open type motor vehicles, which must be swept clean and be free of any projections capable of injuring bags when so packaged. When shipped in open type motor vehicles, the lading must be suitably covered. Ammonium nitrate having organic coating must not be loaded in all-metal vehicles, other than those made of aluminum or aluminum alloys of the closed type. (g) A motor vehicle may only contain 45.4 kg (100 pounds) or less net mass of material described as &#x201C;Smokeless powder for small arms, Division 4.1&#x201D; or &#x201C;Black powder for small arms, Division 4.1.&#x201D; (h) Division 4.2 (pyrophoric liquid) materials in cylinders. Cylinders containing Division 4.2 (pyrophoric liquid) materials, unless packed in a strong box or case and secured therein to protect valves, must be loaded with all valves and safety relief devices in the vapor space. All cylinders must be secured so that no shifting occurs in transit. (i) Division 4.2 (self-heating liquid) material. Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of &#xA7; 177.848(d), the following Division 4.2 (self-heating) materials may be transported on the same transport vehicle with Class 8 (corrosive) materials. The hazardous materials must be palletized with a minimum height of 100 mm (4 inches) off the floor of the vehicle, and the self-heating material must be separated from the corrosive material by a minimum horizontal distance of 1.2 m (4 feet). (1) Sodium hydrosulfite or sodium dithionite, UN1384, in PG II or III packaged in UN 1A2 steel drums that meet the Packing Group II performance requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this title. (2) Thiourea dioxide, UN3341, in PG II or III packaged in UN 1G fiber drums meeting packing group II performance requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter. (3) Self-heating, solid, organic, n.o.s., UN3088, in PG II or III packaged in UN 1G fiber drums meeting the Packing Group II performance level requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter. [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.838, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 177.839 Class 8 (corrosive) materials. (See also &#xA7; 177.834(a) through (j).) (a) Nitric acid. No packaging of nitric acid of 50 percent or greater concentration may be loaded above any packaging containing any other kind of material. (b) Storage batteries. All storage batteries containing any electrolyte must be so loaded, if loaded with other lading, that all such batteries will be protected against other lading falling onto or against them, and adequate means must be provided in all cases for the protection and insulation of battery terminals against short circuits. [Amdt. 177-87, 61 FR 27175, May 30, 1996] &#xA7; 177.840 Class 2 (gases) materials. (See also &#xA7; 177.834 (a) to (j).) (a) Floors or platforms essentially flat. Cylinders containing Class 2 (gases) materials shall not be loaded onto any part of the floor or platform of any motor vehicle which is not essentially flat; cylinders containing Class 2 (gases) materials may be loaded onto any motor vehicle not having a floor or platform only if such motor vehicle be equipped with suitable racks having adequate means for securing such cylinders in place therein. Nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to prohibit the loading of such cylinders on any motor vehicle having a floor or platform and racks as hereinbefore described. (1) Cylinders. Cylinders containing Class 2 gases must be securely restrained in an upright or horizontal position, loaded in racks, or packed in boxes or crates to prevent the cylinders from being shifted, overturned or ejected from the motor vehicle under normal transportation conditions. A pressure relief device, when installed, must be in communication with the vapor space of a cylinder containing a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material. (2) Cylinders for hydrogen, cryogenic liquid. A Specification DOT-4L cylinder containing hydrogen, cryogenic liquid may only be transported on a motor vehicle as follows: (i) The vehicle must have an open body equipped with a suitable rack or support having a means to hold the cylinder upright when subjected to an acceleration of 2 &#x201C;g&#x201D; in any horizontal direction; (ii) The combined total of the hydrogen venting rates, as marked, on the cylinders transported on one motor vehicle may not exceed 60 SCF per hour; (iii) The vehicle may not enter a tunnel; and (iv) Highway transportation is limited to private and contract carriage and to direct movement from point of origin to destination. (3) Cylinders containing material classed as Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A. (i) Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of &#xA7; 177.848(d), a cylinder containing a Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A materials may be transported on the same transport vehicle with materials classed as Division 2.1, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8 if all of the following requirements are met: (A) The Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A material must be packaged as authorized by this subchapter. In addition, each package must be must be placed in a plastic bag which is taped closed and then overpacked in a UN 1A2 steel drum tested and marked for a PG II or higher performance level with insulation material inside to protect the cylinders from fire. The outside of the overpack must be marked with an indication that the inner packagings conform to the prescribed specifications. (B) A Division 2.1 material requiring strong non-bulk outer packagings in accordance with &#xA7; 173.301(a)(9) of this subchapter must be overpacked in a UN 1A2 steel or 1H2 plastic drum tested and marked for a PG II or higher performance level. The outside of the overpack must be marked with an indication that the inner packagings conform to the prescribed specifications. (C) Packages containing Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A material must be separated within the transport vehicle from packages containing Division 2.1, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8 materials by a minimum horizontal distance of 1.2 m (4 feet). In addition, all steel or plastic overpacks containing packages of Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A or Division 2.1 material must be placed on pallets within the transport vehicle. (ii) Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of &#xA7; 177.848(d), Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A material may be transported on the same transport vehicle with non-bulk packagings and IBCs meeting a UN performance standard containing only the residue of Division 2.1, 4.3, 5.1, and Class 3 and 8 materials if all of the following requirements are met: (A) The materials are transported in enclosed trailers equipped with inlet and outlet vent openings with a minimum total area of one square foot per 1,000 cubic feet of trailer volume. Electrical systems within the trailer's interior must be non-sparking or explosion proof. (B) Cylinders must be transported in an upright position and securely restrained within the trailer, or loaded into racks, secured to pallets, or packed in wooden or fiberboard boxes or crates to prevent the cylinders from shifting or overturning within the motor vehicle under normal transportation conditions. If cylinders are secured to a pallet, the pallet must be designed to transport 1,590 kg (3,500 lbs.) per pallet and the cylinders must be secured within the pallet by a web strap rated at 4,545 kg (10,000 lbs.). (C) A cylinder containing Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A materials must be separated from non-bulk packagings and IBCs meeting a UN performance standard containing the residue of materials in Division 2.1, 4.3, or 5.1, or Class 3 or 8 by a minimum horizontal distance of 3 m (10 feet). The maximum gross weight of Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A material carried on one vehicle must not exceed 3,636 kg (8,000 lbs.). (D) Motor carriers must have a satisfactory safety rating as prescribed in 49 CFR part 385. (4) Cylinders for acetylene. Cylinders containing acetylene and manifolded as part of a mobile acetylene trailer system must be transported in accordance with &#xA7; 173.301(g) of this subchapter. (b) Portable tank containers containing Class 2 (gases) materials shall be loaded on motor vehicles only as follows: (1) Onto a flat floor or platform of a motor vehicle. (2) Onto a suitable frame of a motor vehicle. (3) In either such case, such containers shall be safely and securely blocked or held down to prevent shifting relative to each other or to the supporting structure when in transit, particularly during sudden starts and stops and changes of direction of the vehicle. (4) Requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph (b) shall not be construed as prohibiting stacking of containers provided the provisions of paragraph (3) of this paragraph (b) are fully complied with. (c) [Reserved] (d) Engine to be stopped in cargo tank motor vehicles, except for transfer pump. No Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material shall be loaded into or on or unloaded from any cargo tank motor vehicles with the engine running unless the engine is used for the operation of the transfer pump of the vehicle. Unless the delivery hose is equipped with a shut-off valve at its discharge end, the engine of the motor vehicle shall be stopped at the finish of such loading or unloading operation while the filling or discharge connections are disconnected. (e) Chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles shall be shipped only when equipped: (1) With a gas mask of a type approved by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Pittsburgh Research Center, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for chlorine service; and (2) With an emergency kit for controlling leaks in fittings on the dome cover plate. (f) A cargo tank motor vehicle used for transportation of chlorine may not be moved, coupled or uncoupled, when any loading or unloading connections are attached to the vehicle, nor may it be left without the power unit attached unless the vehicle is chocked or equivalent means are provided to prevent motion. For additional requirements, see &#xA7; 173.315(o) of this subchapter. (g) Each liquid discharge valve on a cargo tank motor vehicle, other than an engine fuel line valve, must be closed during transportation except during loading and unloading. (h) The driver of a motor vehicle transporting a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid in a package exceeding 450 L (119 gallons) of water capacity shall avoid unnecessary delays during transportation. If unforeseen conditions cause an excessive pressure rise, the driver shall manually vent the tank at a remote and safe location. For each shipment, the driver shall make a written record of the cargo tank pressure and ambient (outside) temperature: (1) At the start of each trip, (2) Immediately before and after any manual venting, (3) At least once every five hours, and (4) At the destination point. (i) No person may transport a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid in a cargo tank motor vehicle unless the pressure of the lading is equal to or less than that used to determine the marked rated holding time (MRHT) and the one-way travel time (OWTT), marked on the cargo tank in conformance with &#xA7; 173.318(g) of this subchapter, is equal to or greater than the elapsed time between the start and termination of travel. This prohibition does not apply if, prior to expiration of the OWTT, the cargo tank is brought to full equilibration as specified in paragraph (j) of this section. (j) Full equilibration of a cargo tank transporting a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid may only be done at a facility that loads or unloads a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid and must be performed and verified as follows: (1) The temperature and pressure of the liquid must be reduced by a manually controlled release of vapor; and (2) The pressure in the cargo tank must be measured at least ten minutes after the manual release is terminated. (k) A carrier of carbon monoxide, cryogenic liquid must provide each driver with a self-contained air breathing apparatus that is approved by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health; for example, Mine Safety Appliance Co., Model 401, catalog number 461704. (l) Operating procedure. Each operator of a cargo tank motor vehicle that is subject to the emergency discharge control requirements in &#xA7; 173.315(n) of this subchapter must carry on or within the cargo tank motor vehicle written emergency discharge control procedures for all delivery operations. The procedures must describe the cargo tank motor vehicle's emergency discharge control features and, for a passive shut-down capability, the parameters within which they are designed to function. The procedures must describe the process to be followed if a facility-provided hose is used for unloading when the cargo tank motor vehicle has a specially equipped delivery hose assembly to meet the requirements of &#xA7; 173.315(n)(2) of this subchapter. (m) Cargo tank motor vehicle safety check. Before unloading from a cargo tank motor vehicle containing a liquefied compressed gas, the qualified person performing the function must check those components of the discharge system, including delivery hose assemblies and piping, that are readily observed during the normal course of unloading to assure that they are of sound quality, without obvious defects detectable through visual observation and audio awareness, and that connections are secure. This check must be made after the pressure in the discharge system has reached at least equilibrium with the pressure in the cargo tank. Operators need not use instruments or take extraordinary actions to check components not readily visible. No operator may unload liquefied compressed gases from a cargo tank motor vehicle with a delivery hose assembly found to have any condition identified in &#xA7; 180.416(g)(1) of this subchapter or with piping systems found to have any condition identified in &#xA7; 180.416(g)(2) of this subchapter. (n) Emergency shut down. If there is an unintentional release of product to the environment during unloading of a liquefied compressed gas, the qualified person unloading the cargo tank motor vehicle must promptly shut the internal self-closing stop valve or other primary means of closure and shut down all motive and auxiliary power equipment. (o) Daily test of off-truck remote shut-off activation device. For a cargo tank motor vehicle equipped with an off-truck remote means to close the internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment, an operator must successfully test the activation device within 18 hours prior to the first delivery of each day. For a wireless transmitter/receiver, the person conducting the test must be at least 45.72 m (150 feet) from the cargo tank and may have the cargo tank in his line of sight. (p) Unloading procedures for liquefied petroleum gas and anhydrous ammonia in metered delivery service. An operator must use the following procedures for unloading liquefied petroleum gas or anhydrous ammonia from a cargo tank motor vehicle in metered delivery service: (1) For a cargo tank with a capacity of 13,247.5 L (3,500 water gallons) or less, excluding delivery hose and piping, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within 45.72 meters (150 feet) of the cargo tank and 7.62 meters (25 feet) of the delivery hose and must observe both the cargo tank and the receiving container at least once every five minutes when the internal self-closing stop valve is open during unloading operations that take more than five minutes to complete. (2) For a cargo tank with a capacity greater than 13,247.5 L (3,500 water gallons), excluding delivery hose and piping, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within 45.72 m (150 feet) of the cargo tank and 7.62 m (25 feet) of the delivery hose when the internal self-closing stop valve is open. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (p)(2)(ii) of this section, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must have an unobstructed view of the cargo tank and delivery hose to the maximum extent practicable, except during short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container. (ii) For deliveries where the qualified person attending the unloading operation cannot maintain an unobstructed view of the cargo tank, when the internal self-closing stop valve is open, the qualified person must observe both the cargo tank and the receiving container at least once every five minutes during unloading operations that take more than five minutes to complete. In addition, by the compliance dates specified in &#xA7;&#xA7; 173.315(n)(5) and 180.405(m)(3) of this subchapter, the cargo tank motor vehicle must have an emergency discharge control capability that meets the requirements of &#xA7; 173.315(n)(2) or &#xA7; 173.315(n)(4) of this subchapter. (q) Unloading procedures for liquefied petroleum gas and anhydrous ammonia in other than metered delivery service. An operator must use the following procedures for unloading liquefied petroleum gas or anhydrous ammonia from a cargo tank motor vehicle in other than metered delivery service: (1) The qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within 7.62 m (25 feet) of the cargo tank when the internal self-closing stop valve is open. (2) The qualified person attending the unloading operation must have an unobstructed view of the cargo tank and delivery hose to the maximum extent practicable, except during short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container. (r) Unloading using facility-provided hoses. A cargo tank motor vehicle equipped with a specially designed delivery hose assembly to meet the requirements of &#xA7; 173.315(n)(2) of this subchapter may be unloaded using a delivery hose assembly provided by the receiving facility under the following conditions: (1) The qualified person monitoring unloading must visually examine the facility hose assembly for obvious defects prior to its use in the unloading operation. (2) The qualified person monitoring unloading must remain within arm's reach of the mechanical means of closure for the internal self-closing stop valve when the internal self-closing stop valve is open except for short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container. For chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles, the qualified person must remain within arm's reach of a means to stop the flow of product except for short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container. (3) If the facility hose is equipped with a passive means to shut off the flow of product that conforms to and is maintained to the performance standard in &#xA7; 173.315(n)(2) of this subchapter, the qualified person may attend the unloading operation in accordance with the attendance requirements prescribed for the material being unloaded in &#xA7; 177.834 of this section. (s) Off-truck remote shut-off activation device. For a cargo tank motor vehicle with an off-truck remote control shut-off capability as required by &#xA7; 173.315(n)(3) or (n)(4) of this subchapter, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must be in possession of the activation device at all times during the unloading process. This requirement does not apply if the activation device is part of a system that will shut off the unloading operation without human intervention in the event of a leak or separation in the hose. (t) Unloading without appropriate emergency discharge control equipment. Until a cargo tank motor vehicle is equipped with emergency discharge control equipment in conformance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 173.315(n)(2) and 180.405(m)(1) of this subchapter, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within arm's reach of a means to close the internal self-closing stop valve when the internal self-closing stop valve is open except during short periods when the qualified person must activate controls or monitor the receiving container. For chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles unloaded after December 31, 1999, the qualified person must remain within arm's reach of a means to stop the flow of product except for short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container. (u) Unloading of chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles. Unloading of chlorine from a cargo tank motor vehicle must be performed in compliance with Section 3 of the Chlorine Institute Pamphlet 57, &#x201C;Emergency Shut-off Systems for Bulk Transfer of Chlorine&#x201D; (IBR, see &#xA7; 171.7 of this subchapter). (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2137-0542) [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.840, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 177.841 Division 6.1 (poisonous) materials and Division 2.3 (poisonous gas) materials. (See also &#xA7; 177.834 (a) to (j).) (a) Arsenical compounds in bulk. Care shall be exercised in the loading and unloading of &#x201C;arsenical dust&#x201D;, &#x201C;arsenic trioxide&#x201D;, and &#x201C;sodium arsenate&#x201D;, allowable to be loaded into sift-proof, steel hopper-type or dump-type motor-vehicle bodies equipped with water-proof, dust-proof covers well secured in place on all openings, to accomplish such loading with the minimum spread of such compounds into the atmosphere by all means that are practicable; and no such loading or unloading shall be done near or adjacent to any place where there are or are likely to be, during the loading or unloading process assemblages of persons other than those engaged in the loading or unloading process, or upon any public highway or in any public place. Before any motor vehicle may be used for transporting any other articles, all detectable traces of arsenical materials must be removed therefrom by flushing with water, or by other appropriate method, and the marking removed. (b) [Reserved] (c) Division 2.3 (poisonous gas) or Division 6.1 (poisonous) materials. The transportation of a Division 2.3 (poisonous gas) or Division 6.1 (poisonous) material is not permitted if there is any interconnection between packagings. (d) [Reserved] (e) A motor carrier may not transport a package: (1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, bearing or required to bear a POISON or POISON INHALATION HAZARD label or placard in the same motor vehicle with material that is marked as or known to be foodstuffs, feed or edible material intended for consumption by humans or animals unless the poisonous material is packaged in accordance with this subchapter and is: (i) Overpacked in a metal drum as specified in &#xA7; 173.25(c) of this subchapter; or (ii) Loaded into a closed unit load device and the foodstuffs, feed, or other edible material are loaded into another closed unit load device; (2) Bearing or required to bear a POISON, POISON GAS or POISON INHALATION HAZARD label in the driver's compartment (including a sleeper berth) of a motor vehicle; or (3) Bearing a POISON label displaying the text &#x201C;PG III,&#x201D; or bearing a &#x201C;PG III&#x201D; mark adjacent to the POISON label, with materials marked as, or known to be, foodstuffs, feed or any other edible material intended for consumption by humans or animals, unless the package containing the Division 6.1, Packing Group III material is separated in a manner that, in the event of leakage from packages under conditions normally incident to transportation, commingling of hazardous materials with foodstuffs, feed or any other edible material would not occur. (f) Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of &#xA7; 177.848(d), when transported by highway by private or contract motor carrier, Division 6.1 PG I, Hazard Zone A toxic-by-inhalation (TIH) materials meeting the definition of a hazardous waste as provided in &#xA7; 171.8 of this subchapter, may be transported on the same transport vehicle with materials classed as Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8. The Division 6.1 PG I, Hazard Zone A materials must be loaded on pallets and separated from the Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8 materials by a minimum horizontal distance of 2.74 m (9 feet) when in conformance with the following: (1) The TIH materials are packaged in combination packagings as prescribed in &#xA7; 173.226(c) of this subchapter. (2) The combination packages containing TIH materials must be: (i) Filled and packed by the offeror's hazmat employees; (ii) Be placed on pallets, when in a transport vehicle; and (iii) Separated from hazardous materials classed as Class 3, Class 8 or Divisions 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1, or 5.2 by a nine-foot (minimum distance) buffer zone, when in a transport vehicle. The buffer zone maybe established by: (A) A load lock; (B) Empty drums; (C) Drums containing hazardous materials (e.g., Class 9) that are compatible with materials in all other drums immediately around them; or (D) Drums containing non-hazardous materials that are compatible with materials in all other drums immediately around them. [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.841, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. &#xA7; 177.842 Class 7 (radioactive) material. (a) The number of packages of Class 7 (radioactive) materials in any transport vehicle or in any single group in any storage location must be limited so that the total transport index number does not exceed 50. The total transport index of a group of packages and overpacks is determined by adding together the transport index number on the labels on the individual packages and overpacks in the group. This provision does not apply to exclusive use shipments described in &#xA7;&#xA7; 173.441(b), 173.457, and 173.427 of this subchapter. (b) Packages of Class 7 (radioactive) material bearing &#x201C;RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-II&#x201D; or &#x201C;RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-III&#x201D; labels may not be placed in a transport vehicle, storage location or in any other place closer than the distances shown in the following table to any area which may be continuously occupied by any passenger, employee, or animal, nor closer than the distances shown in the table to any package containing undeveloped film (if so marked), and must conform to the following conditions: (1) If more than one of these packages is present, the distance must be computed from the following table on the basis of the total transport index number determined by adding together the transport index number on the labels on the individual packages and overpacks in the vehicle or storeroom. (2) Where more than one group of packages is present in any single storage location, a single group may not have a total transport index greater than 50. Each group of packages must be handled and stored together no closer than 6 m (20 feet) (measured edge to edge) to any other group. The following table is to be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section: Total transport index Minimum separation distance in meters (feet) to nearest undeveloped film in various times of transit Minimum distance in meters (feet) to area of persons, or minimum distance in meters (feet) from dividing partition of cargo compartments Up to 2 hours 2-4 hours 4-8 hours 8-12 hours Over 12 hours None 0.0 (0) 0.0 (0) 0.0 (0) 0.0 (0) 0.0 (0) 0.0 (0) 0.1 to 1.0 0.3 (1) 0.6 (2) 0.9 (3) 1.2 (4) 1.5 (5) 0.3 (1) 1.1 to 5.0 0.9 (3) 1.2 (4) 1.8 (6) 2.4 (8) 3.4 (11) 0.6 (2) 5.1 to 10.0 1.2 (4) 1.8 (6) 2.7 (9) 3.4 (11) 4.6 (15) 0.9 (3) 10.1 to 20.0 1.5 (5) 2.4 (8) 3.7 (12) 4.9 (16) 6.7 (22) 1.2 (4) 20.1 to 30.0 2.1 (7) 3.0 (10) 4.6 (15) 6.1 (20) 8.8 (29) 1.5 (5) 30.1 to 40.0 2.4 (8) 3.4 (11) 5.2 (17) 6.7 (22) 10.1 (33) 1.8 (6) 40.1 to 50.0 2.7 (9) 3.7 (12) 5.8 (19) 7.3 (24) 11.0 (36) 2.1 (7) Note: The distance in this table must be measured from the nearest point on the nearest packages of Class 7 (radioactive) material. (c) Shipments of low specific activity materials and surface contaminated objects, as defined in &#xA7; 173.403 of this subchapter, must be loaded so as to avoid spillage and scattering of loose materials. Loading restrictions are set forth in &#xA7; 173.427 of this subchapter. (d) Packages must be so blocked and braced that they cannot change position during conditions normally incident to transportation. (e) Persons should not remain unnecessarily in a vehicle containing Class 7 (radioactive) materials. (f) The number of packages of fissile Class 7 (radioactive) material in any non-exclusive use transport vehicle must be limited so that the sum of the criticality safety indices (CSIs) does not exceed 50. In loading and storage areas, fissile material packages must be grouped so that the sum of CSIs in any one group is not greater than 50; there may be more than one group of fissile material packages in a loading or storage area, so long as each group is at least 6 m (20 feet) away from all other such groups. All pertinent requirements of &#xA7;&#xA7; 173.457 and 173.459 apply. (g) For shipments transported under exclusive use conditions the radiation dose rate may not exceed 0.02 mSv per hour (2 mrem per hour) in any position normally occupied in the motor vehicle. For shipments transported as exclusive use under the provisions of &#xA7; 173.441(b) of this subchapter for packages with external radiation levels in excess of 2 mSv (200 mrem per hour) at the package surface, the motor vehicle must meet the requirements of a closed transport vehicle (see &#xA7; 173.403 of this subchapter). The sum of criticality safety indices (CSIs) for packages containing fissile material may not exceed 100 in an exclusive use vehicle. [Amdt. 177-85, 60 FR 50334, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 52850, Oct. 1, 1998; 66 FR 45385, Aug. 28, 2001; 69 FR 3696, Jan. 26, 2004; 87 FR 79784, Dec. 27, 2022] &#xA7; 177.843 Contamination of vehicles. (a) Each motor vehicle used for transporting Class 7 (radioactive) materials under exclusive use conditions in accordance with &#xA7; 173.427(b)(4), &#xA7; 173.427(c), or &#xA7; 173.443(b) of this subchapter must be surveyed with radiation detection instruments after each use. A vehicle may not be returned to Class 7 (radioactive) materials exclusive use transport service, and then only for a subsequent exclusive use shipment utilizing the provisions of any of the paragraphs &#xA7; 173.427(b)(4), &#xA7; 173.427(c), or &#xA7; 173.443(b), until the radiation dose rate at every accessible surface is 0.005 mSv/h (0.5 mrem/h) or less and the non-fixed contamination is not greater than the level prescribed in &#xA7; 173.443(a) of this subchapter. (b) This section does not apply to any vehicle used solely for transporting Class 7 (radioactive) material if a survey of the interior surface shows that the radiation dose rate does not exceed 0.1 mSv per hour (10 mrem per hour) at the interior surface or 0.02 mSv per hour (2 mrem per hour) at 1 meter (3.3 feet) from any interior surface. These vehicles must be stenciled with the words &#x201C;For Radioactive Materials Use Only&#x201D; in lettering at least 7.6 cm (3 inches) high in a conspicuous place, on both sides of the exterior of the vehicle. These vehicles must be kept closed at all times other than loading and unloading. (c) In case of fire, accident, breakage, or unusual delay involving shipments of Class 7 (radioactive) material, see &#xA7;&#xA7; 171.15, 171.16 and 177.854 of this subchapter. (d) Each transport vehicle used to transport Division 6.2 materials must be disinfected prior to reuse if a Division 6.2 material is released from its packaging during transportation. Disinfection may be by any means effective for neutralizing the material released. [Amdt. 177-3, 33 FR 14933, Oct. 4, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 177-35, 41 FR 16131, Apr. 15, 1976; Amdt. 177-57, 48 FR 10247, Mar. 10, 1983; Amdt. 177-78, 55 FR 52712, Dec. 21, 1990; Amdt. 177-85, 60 FR 50335, Sept. 28, 1995; 63 FR 52850, Oct. 1, 1998; 65 FR 58631, Sept. 29, 2000; 67 FR 53142, Aug. 14, 2002; 75 FR 53597, Sept. 1, 2010; 79 FR 40618, July 11, 2014] Subpart C-Segregation and Separation Chart of Hazardous Materials &#xA7; 177.848 Segregation of hazardous materials. (a) This section applies to materials which meet one or more of the hazard classes defined in this subchapter and are: (1) In packages that must be labeled or placarded in accordance with part 172 of this subchapter; (2) In a compartment within a multi-compartmented cargo tank subject to the restrictions in &#xA7; 173.33 of this subchapter; or (3) In a portable tank loaded in a transport vehicle or freight container. (b) When a transport vehicle is to be transported by vessel, other than a ferry vessel, hazardous materials on or within that vehicle must be stowed and segregated in accordance with &#xA7; 176.83(b) of this subchapter. (c) In addition to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section and except as provided in &#xA7; 173.12(e) of this subchapter, cyanides, cyanide mixtures or solutions may not be stored, loaded and transported with acids if a mixture of the materials would generate hydrogen cyanide; Division 4.2 materials may not be stored, loaded and transported with Class 8 liquids; and Division 6.1 Packing Group I, Hazard Zone A material may not be stored, loaded and transported with Class 3 material, Class 8 liquids, and Division 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1 or 5.2 materials. (d) Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, hazardous materials must be stored, loaded or transported in accordance with the following table and other provisions of this section: Segregation Table for Hazardous Materials Class or division Notes 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 2.1 2.2 2.3 gas zone A 2.3 gas Zone B 3 4.1 4.2 4.3 5.1 5.2 6.1 liquids PG I zone A 7 8 liquids only Explosives 1.1 and 1.2 A * * * * * X X X X X X X X X X X X X Explosives 1.3 * * * * * X X X X X X X X X X Explosives 1.4 * * * * * O O O O O O O Very insensitive explosives 1.5 A * * * * * X X X X X X X X X X X X X Extremely insensitive explosives 1.6 * * * * * Flammable gases 2.1 X X O X X O O O Non-toxic, non-flammable gases 2.2 X X Poisonous gas Zone A 2.3 X X O X X X X X X X X X Poisonous gas Zone B 2.3 X X O X O O O O O O O O Flammable liquids 3 X X O X X O O X Flammable solids 4.1 X X X O X O Spontaneously combustible materials 4.2 X X O X X O X X Dangerous when wet materials 4.3 X X X X O X O Oxidizers 5.1 A X X X X O O X O Organic peroxides 5.2 X X X X O X O Poisonous liquids PG I Zone A 6.1 X X O X O X X X X X X X Radioactive materials 7 X X O Corrosive liquids 8 X X O X X O O X O O O X (e) lnstructions for using the segregation table for hazardous materials are as follows: (1) The absence of any hazard class or division or a blank space in the table indicates that no restrictions apply. (2) The letter &#x201C;X&#x201D; in the table indicates that these materials may not be loaded, transported, or stored together in the same transport vehicle or storage facility during the course of transportation. (3) The letter &#x201C;O&#x201D; in the table indicates that these materials may not be loaded, transported, or stored together in the same transport vehicle or storage facility during the course of transportation unless separated in a manner that, in the event of leakage from packages under conditions normally incident to transportation, commingling of hazardous materials would not occur. Notwithstanding the methods of separation employed, Class 8 (corrosive) liquids may not be loaded above or adjacent to Class 4 (flammable) or Class 5 (oxidizing) materials; except that shippers may load truckload shipments of such materials together when it is known that the mixture of contents would not cause a fire or a dangerous evolution of heat or gas. (4) The &#x201C;*&#x201D; in the table indicates that segregation among different Class 1 (explosive) materials is governed by the compatibility table in paragraph (f) of this section. (5) The note &#x201C;A&#x201D; in the second column of the table means that, notwithstanding the requirements of the letter &#x201C;X&#x201D;, ammonium nitrate (UN1942) and ammonium nitrate fertilizer may be loaded or stored with Division 1.1 (explosive) or Division 1.5 materials, unless otherwise prohibited by &#xA7; 177.835(c). (6) When the &#xA7; 172.101 table or &#xA7; 172.402 of this subchapter requires a package to bear a subsidiary hazard label, segregation appropriate to the subsidiary hazard must be applied when that segregation is more restrictive than that required by the primary hazard. However, hazardous materials of the same class may be stored together without regard to segregation required for any secondary hazard if the materials are not capable of reacting dangerously with each other and causing combustion or dangerous evolution of heat, evolution of flammable, poisonous, or asphyxiant gases, or formation of corrosive or unstable materials. (f) Class 1 (explosive) materials shall not be loaded, transported, or stored together, except as provided in this section, and in accordance with the following table: Compatibility Table For Class 1 (Explosive) Materials Compatibility group A B C D E F G H J K L N S A X X X X X X X X X X X X B X X X (4) X X X X X X X X 4/5 C X X 2 2 X 6 X X X X 3 4/5 D X X (4) 2 2 X 6 X X X X 3 4/5 E X X 2 2 X 6 X X X X 3 4/5 F X X X X X X X X X X X 4/5 G X X 6 6 6 X X X X X X 4/5 H X X X X X X X X X X X 4/5 J X X X X X X X X X X X 4/5 K X X X X X X X X X X X 4/5 L X X X X X X X X X X 1 X X N X X 3 3 3 X X X X X X 4/5 S X 4/5 4/5 4/5 4/5 4/5 4/5 4/5 4/5 4/5 X 4/5 (g) Instructions for using the compatibility table for Class 1 (explosive) materials are as follows: (1) A blank space in the table indicates that no restrictions apply. (2) The letter &#x201C;X&#x201D; in the table indicates that explosives of different compatibility groups may not be carried on the same transport vehicle. (3) The numbers in the table mean the following: (i) &#x201C;1&#x201D; means an explosive from compatibility group L shall only be carried on the same transport vehicle with an identical explosive. (ii) &#x201C;2&#x201D; means any combination of explosives from compatibility groups C, D, or E is assigned to compatibility group E. (iii) &#x201C;3&#x201D; means any combination of explosives from compatibility groups C, D, or E with those in compatibility group N is assigned to compatibility group D. (iv) &#x201C;4&#x201D; means see &#xA7; 177.835(g) when transporting detonators. (v) &#x201C;5&#x201D; means Division 1.4S fireworks may not be loaded on the same transport vehicle with Division 1.1 or 1.2 (explosive) materials. (vi) &#x201C;6&#x201D; means explosive articles in compatibility group G, other than fireworks and those requiring special handling, may be loaded, transported and stored with other explosive articles of compatibility groups C, D and E, provided that explosive substances (such as those not contained in articles) are not carried in the same transport vehicle. (h) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, explosives of the same compatibility group but of different divisions may be transported together provided that the whole shipment is transported as though its entire contents were of the lower numerical division (i.e., Division 1.1 being lower than Division 1.2). For example, a mixed shipment of Division 1.2 (explosive) materials and Division 1.4 (explosive) materials, both of compatibility group D, must be transported as Division 1.2 (explosive) materials. (i) When Division 1.5 materials, compatibility group D, are transported in the same freight container as Division 1.2 (explosive) materials, compatibility group D, the shipment must be transported as Division 1.1 (explosive) materials, compatibility group D. [Amdt. 177-78, 55 FR 52712, Dec. 21, 1990] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.848, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. Subpart D-Vehicles and Shipments in Transit; Accidents &#xA7; 177.854 Disabled vehicles and broken or leaking packages; repairs. (a) Care of lading, hazardous materials. Whenever for any cause other than necessary traffic stops any motor vehicle transporting any hazardous material is stopped upon the traveled portion of any highway or shoulder thereof, special care shall be taken to guard the vehicle and its load or to take such steps as may be necessary to provide against hazard. Special effort shall be made to remove the motor vehicle to a place where the hazards of the materials being transported may be provided against. See &#xA7;&#xA7; 392.22, 392.24, and 392.25 of this title for warning devices required to be displayed on the highway. (b) Disposition of containers found broken or leaking in transit. When leaks occur in packages or containers during the course of transportation, subsequent to initial loading, disposition of such package or container shall be made by the safest practical means afforded under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. (c) Repairing or overpacking packages. (1) Packages may be repaired when safe and practicable, such repairing to be in accordance with the best and safest practice known and available. (2) Packages of hazardous materials that are damaged or found leaking during transportation, and hazardous materials that have spilled or leaked during transportation, may be forwarded to destination or returned to the shipper in a salvage packaging in accordance with the requirements of &#xA7; 173.3, as applicable, of this subchapter. (d) Transportation of repaired packages. Any package repaired in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be transported to the nearest place at which it may safely be disposed of only in compliance with the following requirements: (1) The package must be safe for transportation. (2) The repair of the package must be adequate to prevent contamination of or hazardous admixture with other lading transported on the same motor vehicle therewith. (3) If the carrier is not himself the shipper, the consignee's name and address must be plainly marked on the repaired package. (e) Disposition of unsafe broken packages. In the event any leaking package or container cannot be safely and adequately repaired for transportation or transported, it shall be stored pending proper disposition in the safest and most expeditious manner possible. (f) Stopped vehicles; other dangerous articles. Whenever any motor vehicle transporting Class 3 (flammable liquid), Class 4 (flammable solid), Class 5 (oxidizing), Class 8 (corrosive), Class 2 (gases), or Division 6.1 (poisonous) materials, is stopped for any cause other than necessary traffic stops upon the traveled portion of any highway, or a shoulder next thereto, the following requirements shall be complied with during the period of such stop: (1) For motor vehicles other than cargo tank motor vehicles used for the transportation of Class 3 (flammable liquid) or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials and not transporting Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive) materials, warning devices must be set out in the manner prescribed in &#xA7; 392.22 of this title. (2) For cargo tanks used for the transportation of Class 3 (flammable liquid) or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials, whether loaded or empty, and vehicles transporting Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive) materials, warning devices must be set out in the manner prescribed by &#xA7; 392.25 of this title. (g) Repair and maintenance of vehicles containing certain hazardous materials -(1) General. No person may use heat, flame or spark producing devices to repair or maintain the cargo or fuel containment system of a motor vehicle required to be placarded, other than COMBUSTIBLE, in accordance with subpart F of part 172 of this subchapter. As used in this section, &#x201C;containment system&#x201D; includes all vehicle components intended physically to contain cargo or fuel during loading or filling, transport, or unloading. (2) Repair and maintenance inside a building. No person may perform repair or maintenance on a motor vehicle subject to paragraph (g)(1) of this section inside a building unless: (i) The motor vehicle's cargo and fuel containment systems are closed (except as necessary to maintain or repair the vehicle's motor) and do not show any indication of leakage; (ii) A means is provided, and a person capable to operate the motor vehicle is available, to immediately remove the motor vehicle if necessary in an emergency; (iii) The motor vehicle is removed from the enclosed area upon completion of repair or maintenance work; and (iv) For motor vehicles loaded with Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 (explosive), Class 3 (flammable liquid), or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials, all sources of spark, flame or glowing heat within the area of enclosure (including any heating system drawing air therefrom) are extinguished, made inoperable or rendered explosion-proof by a suitable method. Exception: Electrical equipment on the vehicle, necessary to accomplish the maintenance function, may remain operational. (h) No repair with flame unless gas-free. No repair of a cargo tank used for the transportation of any Class 3 (flammable liquid) or Division 6.1 (poisonous liquid) material, or any compartment thereof, or of any container for fuel of whatever nature, may be repaired by any method employing a flame, arc, or other means of welding, unless the tank or compartment shall first have been made gas-free. [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.854, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov. Subpart E-Regulations Applying to Hazardous Material on Motor Vehicles Carrying Passengers for Hire &#xA7; 177.870 Regulations for passenger carrying vehicles. (a) Vehicles transporting passengers and property. In addition to the regulations in parts 170-189 of this subchapter the following requirements shall apply to vehicles transporting passengers and property. (b) No Class 1 (explosive) materials or other hazardous materials on passenger-carrying vehicles, exceptions. No hazardous materials except small-arms ammunition, emergency shipments of drugs, chemicals and hospital supplies, and the accompanying munitions of war of the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force of the United States Government, are authorized by parts 170-189 of this subchapter to be transported on motor vehicles carrying passengers for hire where other practicable means of transportation is available. (c) Class 1 (explosive) materials in passenger-carrying space forbidden. No Class 1 (explosive) material, except small-arms ammunition, may be carried in the passenger-carrying space of any motor vehicle transporting passengers for hire. (d) Hazardous materials on passenger carrying vehicles; quantity. Where no other practicable means of transportation is available the following articles in the quantities as shown may be transported in motor vehicles carrying passengers for hire in a space other than that provided for passengers: Not to exceed 45 kg (99 pounds) gross weight of any or all of the kinds of Class 1 (explosive) materials permitted to be transported by passenger-carrying aircraft or rail car may be transported on a motor vehicle transporting passengers: Provided, however, That samples of Class 1 (explosive) materials for laboratory examination, not to exceed two samples, or a total of no more than 100 detonators, Division 1.4 (explosive) materials at one time in a single motor vehicle, may be transported in a motor vehicle transporting passengers. (e) Articles other than Class 1 (explosive) materials on passenger-carrying vehicles. The gross weight of any given class of hazardous material other than Class 1 (explosive) materials shall not exceed 45 kg (99 pounds), and the aggregate weight of all such other dangerous articles shall not exceed 225 kg (496 pounds). This provision does not apply to nontoxic, nonflammable refrigerants, when such refrigerant is for servicing operations of a motor carrier on whose motor vehicles the refrigerant is used. A cylinder secured against shifting while in transit and not exceeding 113 kg (250 pounds) gross weight may be transported. (f) Division 6.1 (poisonous) or Division 2.3 (poisonous gas) materials on passenger-carrying vehicles. No motor carrier may transport any extremely dangerous Division 6.1 (poisonous) or Division 2.3 (poisonous gas) material, or any paranitroaniline, in any amount, in or on any bus while engaged in the transportation of passengers; or any less dangerous Division 6.1 (poisonous) material, which is other than a liquid, in any amount exceeding an aggregate of 45 kg (99 pounds) gross weight in or on any such bus. (g) Class 7 (radioactive) materials. In addition to the limitations prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section, no person may transport any Class 7 (radioactive) material requiring labels under &#xA7;&#xA7; 172.436, 172.438, and 172.440 of this subchapter in or on any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire except where no other practicable means of transportation is available. Packages of Class 7 (radioactive) materials must be stored only in the trunk or baggage compartment of the vehicle, and must not be stored in any compartment occupied by persons. Packages of Class 7 (radioactive) materials must be handled and placed in the vehicle as prescribed in &#xA7; 177.842. [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967] Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting &#xA7; 177.870, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.