PART 568-VEHICLES MANUFACTURED IN TWO OR MORE STAGES-ALL INCOMPLETE, INTERMEDIATE AND FINAL-STAGE MANUFACTURERS OF VEHICLES MANUFACTURED IN TWO OR MORE STAGES Authority: 49 U.S.C. 30111, 30115, 30117, 30166 delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50. Source: 70 FR 7434, Feb. 14, 2005, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 568.1 Purpose and scope. The purpose of this part is to prescribe the method by which manufacturers of vehicles manufactured in two or more stages shall ensure conformity of those vehicles with the Federal motor vehicle safety standards (&#x201C;standards&#x201D;) and other regulations issued under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, as amended (49 U.S.C. &#xA7; 30115) and the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (49 U.S.C. 32504 and 33108(c)). &#xA7; 568.2 Application. This part applies to incomplete vehicle manufacturers, intermediate manufacturers, and final-stage manufacturers of vehicles manufactured in two or more stages. &#xA7; 568.3 Definitions. All terms that are defined in the Act and the rules and standards issued under its authority are used as defined therein. The term &#x201C;bumper&#x201D; has the meaning assigned to it in Title I of the Cost Savings Act and the rules and standards issued under its authority. The definitions contained in 49 CFR part 567 apply to this part. &#xA7; 568.4 Requirements for incomplete vehicle manufacturers. (a) The incomplete vehicle manufacturer shall furnish for each incomplete vehicle, at or before the time of delivery, an incomplete vehicle document (&#x201C;IVD&#x201D;) that contains the following statements, in the order shown, and all other information required by this part to be included therein: (1) Name and mailing address of the incomplete vehicle manufacturer. (2) Month and year during which the incomplete vehicle manufacturer performed its last manufacturing operation on the incomplete vehicle. (3) Identification of the incomplete vehicle(s) to which the document applies. The identification shall be by vehicle identification number (VIN) or groups of VINs to permit a person to ascertain positively that a document applies to a particular incomplete vehicle after the document has been removed from the vehicle. (4) Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of the completed vehicle for which the incomplete vehicle is intended. (5) Gross axle weight rating (GAWR) for each axle of the completed vehicle for which the incomplete vehicle is intended, listed and identified in order from front to rear ( e.g. , front, first intermediate, second intermediate, rear). The ratings for any consecutive axles having identical gross axle weight ratings when equipped with tires having the same tire size designation may, at the option of the incomplete vehicle manufacturer, be stated as a single value, with the label indicating to which axles the ratings apply. Examples of combined ratings: (a) All axles-2,400 kg (5,290 lb) with LT245/75R16(E) tires; (b) Front-5,215 kg (11,500 lb) with 295/75R22.5(G) tires. (c) First intermediate to rear-9,070 kg (20,000 lb) with 295/75R22.5(G) tires. (6) Listing of the vehicle types as defined in 49 CFR 571.3 ( e.g. , truck, MPV, bus, trailer) into which the incomplete vehicle may appropriately be manufactured. (7) Listing, by number, of each standard, in effect at the time of manufacture of the incomplete vehicle, that applies to any of the vehicle types listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, followed in each case by one of the following three types of statement, as applicable: (i) Type 1-A statement that the vehicle when completed will conform to the standard if no alterations are made in identified components of the incomplete vehicle. Example: 104-This vehicle when completed will conform to FMVSS No. 104, Windshield Wiping and Washing Systems, if no alterations are made in the windshield wiper components. (ii) Type 2-A statement of specific conditions of final manufacture under which the manufacturer specifies that the completed vehicle will conform to the standard. Example: 121-This vehicle when completed will conform to FMVSS No. 121, Air Brake Systems, if it does not exceed any of the gross axle weight ratings, if the center of gravity at GVWR is not higher than nine feet above the ground, and if no alterations are made in any brake system component. (iii) Type 3-A statement that conformity with the standard cannot be determined based upon the components supplied on the incomplete vehicle, and that the incomplete vehicle manufacturer makes no representation as to conformity with the standard. (8) Each document shall contain a table of contents or chart summarizing all the standards applicable to the vehicle pursuant to 49 CFR 568.4(a)(7). (9) A certification that the statements contained in the incomplete vehicle document are accurate as of the date of manufacture of the incomplete vehicle and can be used and relied on by any intermediate and/or final-stage manufacturer as a basis for certification. (b) To the extent the IVD expressly incorporates by reference body builder or other design and engineering guidance (Reference Material), the incomplete vehicle manufacturer shall make such Reference Material readily available to subsequent manufacturers. Reference Materials incorporated by reference in the IVD shall be deemed to be part of the IVD. (c) The IVD shall be attached to the incomplete vehicle in such a manner that it will not be inadvertently detached, or alternatively, it may be sent directly to a final-stage manufacturer, intermediate manufacturer or purchaser for purposes other than resale to whom the incomplete vehicle is delivered. The Reference Material in paragraph (b) of this section need not be attached to each vehicle. [70 FR 7434, Feb. 14, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 28197, May 15, 2006] &#xA7; 568.5 Requirements for intermediate manufacturers. Each intermediate manufacturer of a vehicle manufactured in two or more stages shall furnish to the final-stage manufacturer the document required by 49 CFR 568.4 in the manner specified in that section. If any of the changes in the vehicle made by the intermediate manufacturer affects the validity of the statements in the IVD, that manufacturer shall furnish an addendum to the IVD that contains its name and mailing address and an indication of all changes that should be made in the IVD to reflect changes that it made to the vehicle. The addendum shall contain a certification by the intermediate manufacturer that the statements contained in the addendum are accurate as of the date of manufacture by the intermediate manufacturer and can be used and relied on by any subsequent intermediate manufacturer(s) and the final-stage manufacturer as a basis for certification. &#xA7; 568.6 Requirements for final-stage manufacturers. Each final-stage manufacturer shall complete the vehicle in such a manner that it conforms to the applicable standards in effect on the date selected by the final-stage manufacturer, including the date of manufacture of the incomplete vehicle, the date of final completion, or a date between those two dates. This requirement shall, however, be superseded by any conflicting provisions of a standard that applies by its terms to vehicles manufactured in two or more stages. &#xA7; 568.7 Requirements for manufacturers who assume legal responsibility for a vehicle. (a) If an incomplete vehicle manufacturer assumes legal responsibility for all duties and liabilities imposed on manufacturers by the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, as amended (49 U.S.C. chapter 301) (hereafter referred to as the Act), with respect to a vehicle as finally manufactured, the requirements of &#xA7;&#xA7; 568.4, 568.5 and 568.6 do not apply to that vehicle. In such a case, the incomplete vehicle manufacturer shall ensure that a label is affixed to the final vehicle in conformity with 49 CFR 567.5(f). (b) If an intermediate manufacturer of a vehicle assumes legal responsibility for all duties and liabilities imposed on manufacturers by the Vehicle Safety Act, with respect to the vehicle as finally manufactured, &#xA7;&#xA7; 568.5 and 568.6 do not apply to that vehicle. In such a case, the intermediate manufacturer shall ensure that a label is affixed to the final vehicle in conformity with 49 CFR 567.5(g). The assumption of responsibility by an intermediate manufacturer does not, however, change the requirements for incomplete vehicle manufacturers in &#xA7; 568.4.