PART 79-MEDALS OF HONOR Authority: 49 U.S.C. 80504. Source: 61 FR 17578, Apr. 22, 1996, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 79.1 Scope. (a) This part implements 49 U.S.C. 80504, which authorizes the President of the United States to award a bronze medal for bravery to any person who, by extreme daring, risks his/her life in trying to prevent, or to save the life of a person in, a grave accident/incident in the United States that involves an interstate rail carrier or a motor vehicle being operated on public highways. (b) The actions for which the medal may be awarded must reflect such unusual daring and bravery that a person would not normally be expected to perform them as a regular part of his/her regular work or vocation. &#xA7; 79.3 Application. (a) Any person may apply for the award of the medal described in &#xA7; 79.1, but only on behalf of another person, by writing to the Secretary of Transportation, Attention: Medals of Honor, within two (2) years of the action that is the subject of the application. (b) Although no application form is required, the following information must be provided: (1) Name, address, and telephone number of the person submitting the application. (2) Name, address, and telephone number of the person on whose behalf the application is submitted. (3) Date, time, place, and weather conditions of the action that is the subject of the application. (4) Identification of rail or motor carrier involved, or of operator of motor vehicles involved. (5) Identification of any public or private authority that investigated the accident/incident involved. (6) Name, address, and telephone number of any witness to the action that is the subject of the application. (7) Detailed description of the action that is the subject of the application, including why the person submitting the application thinks that the action merits the extraordinary recognition embodied in the Medal of Honor. (c) An application and any documentary or other evidence supporting it must be supported by oath or affirmation, or by the signer's acknowledgment that a knowingly false statement is punishable as perjury. &#xA7; 79.5 Investigation. The Department of Transportation may make any investigation of an application that it deems appropriate, including the taking of testimony under oath or affirmation. &#xA7; 79.7 Award. If the Secretary of Transportation decides that it is warranted, the Secretary shall award the Medal on behalf of and in the name of the President of the United States. &#xA7; 79.9 Design. The Department is authorized to adopt and revise the existing designs for the award, rosette, and ribbon provided for by statute.