PART 382-CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND ALCOHOL USE AND TESTING Authority: 49 U.S.C. 31133, 31136, 31301 et seq. , 31502; sec. 32934 of Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405, 830; and 49 CFR 1.87. Source: 66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 382.101 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to establish programs designed to help prevent accidents and injuries resulting from the misuse of alcohol or use of controlled substances by drivers of commercial motor vehicles (CMVs). [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024] &#xA7; 382.103 Applicability. (a) This part applies to service agents and to every person and to all employers of such persons who operate a commercial motor vehicle in commerce in any State and are subject to: (1) The commercial driver's license requirements of part 383 of this subchapter; (2) The Licencia Federal de Conductor (Mexico) requirements; or (3) The commercial drivers license requirements of the Canadian National Safety Code. (b) An employer who employs himself/herself as a driver must comply with both the requirements in this part that apply to employers and the requirements in this part that apply to drivers. An employer who employs only himself/herself as a driver shall implement a random alcohol and controlled substances testing program of two or more covered employees in the random testing selection pool. (c) The exceptions contained in &#xA7; 390.3T(f) of this subchapter do not apply to this part. The employers and drivers identified in &#xA7; 390.3T(f) of this subchapter must comply with the requirements of this part, unless otherwise specifically provided in paragraph (d) of this section. (d) Exceptions. This part shall not apply to employers and their drivers: (1) Required to comply only with the alcohol and/or controlled substances testing requirements of part 655 of this title (Federal Transit Administration alcohol and controlled substances testing regulations); or (2) Who a State must waive from the requirements of part 383 of this subchapter. These individuals include active duty military personnel; members of the reserves; and members of the national guard on active duty, including personnel on full-time national guard duty, personnel on part-time national guard training and national guard military technicians (civilians who are required to wear military uniforms), and active duty U.S. Coast Guard personnel; or (3) Who a State has, at its discretion, exempted from the requirements of part 383 of this subchapter. These individuals may be: (i) Operators of a farm vehicle which is: (A) Controlled and operated by a farmer; (B) Used to transport either agricultural products, farm machinery, farm supplies, or both to or from a farm; (C) Not used in the operations of a for-hire motor carrier, except for an exempt motor carrier as defined in &#xA7; 390.5T of this subchapter; and (D) Used within 241 kilometers (150 miles) of the farmer's farm. (ii) Firefighters or other persons who operate commercial motor vehicles which are necessary for the preservation of life or property or the execution of emergency governmental functions, are equipped with audible and visual signals, and are not subject to normal traffic regulation. (4) Who operate &#x201C;covered farm vehicles,&#x201D; as defined in 49 CFR 390.5. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 16194, Mar. 14, 2013; 81 FR 68346, Oct. 4, 2016; 81 FR 71016, Oct. 14, 2016; 81 FR 87724, Dec. 5, 2016; 86 FR 35639, July 7, 2021; 89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024] &#xA7; 382.105 Testing procedures. Each employer shall ensure that all alcohol or controlled substances testing conducted under this part complies with the procedures set forth in part 40 of this title. The provisions of part 40 of this title that address alcohol or controlled substances testing are made applicable to employers by this part. &#xA7; 382.107 Definitions. Words or phrases used in this part are defined in &#xA7;&#xA7; 386.2 and 390.5T of this subchapter, and &#xA7; 40.3 of this title, except as provided in this section- Actual knowledge for the purpose of subpart B of this part, means actual knowledge by an employer that a driver has used alcohol or controlled substances based on the employer's direct observation of the employee, information provided by the driver's previous employer(s), a traffic citation for driving a CMV while under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances or an employee's admission of alcohol or controlled substance use, except as provided in &#xA7; 382.121. Direct observation as used in this definition means observation of alcohol or controlled substances use and does not include observation of employee behavior or physical characteristics sufficient to warrant reasonable suspicion testing under &#xA7; 382.307. As used in this section, &#x201C;traffic citation&#x201D; means a ticket, complaint, or other document charging driving a CMV while under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances. Alcohol means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols including methyl and isopropyl alcohol. Alcohol concentration ( or content ) means the alcohol in a volume of breath expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as indicated by an evidential breath test under this part. Alcohol use means the drinking or swallowing of any beverage, liquid mixture or preparation (including any medication), containing alcohol. Commerce means: (1) Any trade, traffic or transportation within the jurisdiction of the United States between a place in a State and a place outside of such State, including a place outside of the United States; or (2) Trade, traffic, and transportation in the United States which affects any trade, traffic, and transportation described in paragraph (1) of this definition. Commercial Driver's License Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse) means the FMCSA database that subpart G of this part requires employers and service agents to report information to and to query regarding drivers who are subject to the DOT controlled substance and alcohol testing regulations. Commercial motor vehicle (CMV) means a motor vehicle or combination of motor vehicles used in commerce to transport passengers or property if the vehicle (1) Has a gross combination weight rating or gross combination weight of 11,794 kilograms or more (26,001 pounds or more), whichever is greater, inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight rating or gross vehicle weight of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds), whichever is greater; or (2) Has a gross vehicle weight rating or gross vehicle weight of 11,794 or more kilograms (26,001 or more pounds), whichever is greater; or (3) Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver; or (4) Is of any size and is used in the transportation of materials found to be hazardous for the purposes of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 5103(b)) and which require the motor vehicle to be placarded under the Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR part 172, subpart F). Confirmation (or confirmatory) drug test means a second analytical procedure performed on a urine or oral fluid specimen to identify and quantify the presence of a specific drug or drug metabolite. Confirmation (or confirmatory) validity test means a second test performed on a urine or oral fluid specimen to further support a validity test result. Confirmed drug test means a confirmation test result received by an MRO from a laboratory. Consortium/Third-party administrator (C/TPA) means a service agent that provides or coordinates one or more drug and/or alcohol testing services to DOT-regulated employers. C/TPAs typically provide or coordinate the provision of a number of such services and perform administrative tasks concerning the operation of the employers' drug and alcohol testing programs. This term includes, but is not limited to, groups of employers who join together to administer, as a single entity, the DOT drug and alcohol testing programs of its members ( e.g., having a combined random testing pool). C/TPAs are not &#x201C;employers&#x201D; for purposes of this part, except as provided in &#xA7; 382.705(c). Controlled substances mean those substances identified in &#xA7; 40.82 of this title. Designated employer representative (DER) is an individual identified by the employer as able to receive communications and test results from service agents and who is authorized to take immediate actions to remove employees from safety-sensitive duties and to make required decisions in the testing and evaluation processes. The individual must be an employee of the company. Service agents cannot serve as DERs. Disabling damage means damage which precludes departure of a motor vehicle from the scene of the accident in its usual manner in daylight after simple repairs. (1) Inclusions. Damage to motor vehicles that could have been driven, but would have been further damaged if so driven. (2) Exclusions. (i) Damage which can be remedied temporarily at the scene of the accident without special tools or parts. (ii) Tire disablement without other damage even if no spare tire is available. (iii) Headlight or taillight damage. (iv) Damage to turn signals, horn, or windshield wipers which make them inoperative. DOT Agency means an agency (or &#x201C;operating administration&#x201D;) of the United States Department of Transportation administering regulations requiring alcohol and/or drug testing (14 CFR parts 61, 63, 65, 121, and 135; 49 CFR parts 199, 219, 382, and 655), in accordance with part 40 of this title. Driver means any person who operates a commercial motor vehicle. This includes, but is not limited to: Full time, regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent or occasional drivers; leased drivers and independent owner-operator contractors. Employer means a person or entity employing one or more employees (including an individual who is self-employed) that is subject to DOT agency regulations requiring compliance with this part. The term, as used in this part, means the entity responsible for overall implementation of DOT drug and alcohol program requirements, including individuals employed by the entity who take personnel actions resulting from violations of this part and any applicable DOT agency regulations. Service agents are not employers for the purposes of this part. Licensed medical practitioner means a person who is licensed, certified, and/or registered, in accordance with applicable Federal, State, local, or foreign laws and regulations, to prescribe controlled substances and other drugs. Negative return-to-duty test result means a return-to-duty test with a negative drug result and/or an alcohol test with an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02, as described in &#xA7; 40.305 of this title. Performing (a safety-sensitive function) means a driver is considered to be performing a safety-sensitive function during any period in which he or she is actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately available to perform any safety-sensitive functions. Positive rate for random drug testing means the number of verified positive results for random drug tests conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random drug tests required by this part, divided by the total number of random drug tests results ( i.e., positives, negatives, and refusals) under this part. Refuse to submit (to an alcohol or controlled substances test) means that a driver: (1) Fail to appear for any test (except a pre-employment test) within a reasonable time, as determined by the employer, consistent with applicable DOT agency regulations, after being directed to do so by the employer. This includes the failure of an employee (including an owner-operator) to appear for a test when called by a C/TPA (see &#xA7; 40.61(a) of this title); (2) Fail to remain at the testing site until the testing process is complete. Provided, that an employee who leaves the testing site before the testing process commences (see &#xA7; 40.63(c) of this title) a pre-employment test is not deemed to have refused to test; (3) Fail to provide a urine or oral fluid specimen for any drug test required by this part or DOT agency regulations. Provided, that an employee who does not provide a urine or oral fluid specimen because he or she has left the testing site before the testing process commences (see &#xA7; 40.63(c) of this title) for a pre-employment test is not deemed to have refused to test; (4) In the case of a directly observed or monitored collection in a drug test, fails to permit the observation or monitoring of the driver's provision of a specimen (see &#xA7;&#xA7; 40.67(l) and 40.69(g) of this title); (5) Fail to provide a sufficient amount of urine or oral fluid when directed, and it has been determined, through a required medical evaluation, that there was no adequate medical explanation for the failure (see &#xA7; 40.193(d)(2) of this title); (6) Fail or declines to take a second test the employer or collector has directed the driver to take; (7) Fail to undergo a medical examination or evaluation, as directed by the MRO as part of the verification process, or as directed by the DER under &#xA7; 40.193(d) of this title. In the case of a pre-employment drug test, the employee is deemed to have refused to test on this basis only if the pre-employment test is conducted following a contingent offer of employment; (8) Fail to cooperate with any part of the testing process (e.g., refuse to empty pockets when so directed by the collector, behave in a confrontational way that disrupts the collection process); or (9) Is reported by the MRO as having a verified adulterated or substituted test result. Safety-sensitive function means all time from the time a driver begins to work or is required to be in readiness to work until the time he/she is relieved from work and all responsibility for performing work. Safety-sensitive functions shall include: (1) All time at an employer or shipper plant, terminal, facility, or other property, or on any public property, waiting to be dispatched, unless the driver has been relieved from duty by the employer; (2) All time inspecting equipment as required by &#xA7;&#xA7; 392.7 and 392.8 of this subchapter or otherwise inspecting, servicing, or conditioning any commercial motor vehicle at any time; (3) All time spent at the driving controls of a commercial motor vehicle in operation; (4) All time, other than driving time, in or upon any commercial motor vehicle except time spent resting in a sleeper berth (a berth conforming to the requirements of &#xA7; 393.76 of this subchapter); (5) All time loading or unloading a vehicle, supervising, or assisting in the loading or unloading, attending a vehicle being loaded or unloaded, remaining in readiness to operate the vehicle, or in giving or receiving receipts for shipments loaded or unloaded; and (6) All time repairing, obtaining assistance, or remaining in attendance upon a disabled vehicle. Screening test (or initial test) means: (1) In drug testing, a test to eliminate &#x201C;negative&#x201D; urine or oral fluid specimens from further analysis or to identify a specimen that requires additional testing for the presence of drugs. (2) In alcohol testing, an analytical procedure to determine whether an employee may have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in a breath or saliva specimen. Stand-down means the practice of temporarily removing an employee from the performance of safety-sensitive functions based only on a report from a laboratory to the MRO of a confirmed positive test for a drug or drug metabolite, an adulterated test, or a substituted test, before the MRO has completed verification of the test results. Violation rate for random alcohol testing means the number of 0.04 and above random alcohol confirmation test results conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random alcohol tests required by this part, divided by the total number of random alcohol screening tests (including refusals) conducted under this part. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 75458, Dec. 31, 2003; 77 FR 59825, Oct. 1, 2012; 81 FR 87724, Dec. 5, 2016; 83 FR 48726, Sept. 27, 2018; 84 FR 51432, Sept. 30, 2019; 86 FR 57069, Oct. 14, 2021; 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023; 88 FR 80180, Nov. 17, 2023; 89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024] &#xA7; 382.109 Preemption of State and local laws. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this part preempts any State or local law, rule, regulation, or order to the extent that: (1) Compliance with both the State or local requirement in this part is not possible; or (2) Compliance with the State or local requirement is an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of any requirement in this part. (b) This part shall not be construed to preempt provisions of State criminal law that impose sanctions for reckless conduct leading to actual loss of life, injury, or damage to property, whether the provisions apply specifically to transportation employees, employers, or the general public. &#xA7; 382.111 Other requirements imposed by employers. Except as expressly provided in this part, nothing in this part shall be construed to affect the authority of employers, or the rights of drivers, with respect to the use of alcohol, or the use of controlled substances, including authority and rights with respect to testing and rehabilitation. &#xA7; 382.113 Requirement for notice. Before performing each alcohol or controlled substances test under this part, each employer shall notify a driver that the alcohol or controlled substances test is required by this part. No employer shall falsely represent that a test is administered under this part. &#xA7; 382.115 Starting date for testing programs. (a) All domestic-domiciled employers must implement the requirements of this part on the date the employer begins commercial motor vehicle operations. (b) All foreign-domiciled employers must implement the requirements of this part on the date the employer begins commercial motor vehicle operations in the United States. &#xA7; 382.117 Public interest exclusion. No employer shall use the services of a service agent who is subject to public interest exclusion in accordance with 49 CFR part 40, Subpart R. &#xA7; 382.119 Stand-down waiver provision. (a) Employers are prohibited from standing employees down, except consistent with a waiver from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration as required under this section. (b) An employer subject to this part who seeks a waiver from the prohibition against standing down an employee before the MRO has completed the verification process shall follow the procedures in 49 CFR 40.21. The employer must send a written request, which includes all of the information required by that section to the Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. (c) The final decision whether to grant or deny the application for a waiver will be made by the Administrator or the Administrator's designee. (d) After a decision is signed by the Administrator or the Administrator's designee, the employer will be sent a copy of the decision, which will include the terms and conditions for the waiver or the reason for denying the application for a waiver. (e) Questions regarding waiver applications should be directed to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Safety Programs (MC-SS), 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 55700, Oct. 1, 2007; 87 FR 59035, Sept. 29, 2022] &#xA7; 382.121 Employee admission of alcohol and controlled substances use. (a) Employees who admit to alcohol misuse or controlled substances use are not subject to the referral, evaluation and treatment requirements of this part and part 40 of this title, provided that: (1) The admission is in accordance with a written employer-established voluntary self-identification program or policy that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; (2) The driver does not self-identify in order to avoid testing under the requirements of this part; (3) The driver makes the admission of alcohol misuse or controlled substances use prior to performing a safety sensitive function (i.e., prior to reporting for duty); and (4) The driver does not perform a safety sensitive function until the employer is satisfied that the employee has been evaluated and has successfully completed education or treatment requirements in accordance with the self-identification program guidelines. (b) A qualified voluntary self-identification program or policy must contain the following elements: (1) It must prohibit the employer from taking adverse action against an employee making a voluntary admission of alcohol misuse or controlled substances use within the parameters of the program or policy and paragraph (a) of this section; (2) It must allow the employee sufficient opportunity to seek evaluation, education or treatment to establish control over the employee's drug or alcohol problem; (3) It must permit the employee to return to safety sensitive duties only upon successful completion of an educational or treatment program, as determined by a drug and alcohol abuse evaluation expert, i.e., employee assistance professional, substance abuse professional, or qualified drug and alcohol counselor; (4) It must ensure that: (i) Prior to the employee participating in a safety sensitive function, the employee shall undergo a non-DOT return to duty test with a result indicating an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02; and/or (ii) Prior to the employee participating in a safety sensitive function, the employee shall undergo a non-DOT return to duty controlled substance test with a verified negative test result for controlled substances use; and (5) It may incorporate employee monitoring and include non-DOT follow-up testing. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 86 FR 35639, July 7, 2021] &#xA7; 382.123 Driver identification. (a) Identification information on the Alcohol Testing Form (ATF). For each alcohol test performed under this part, the employer shall provide the driver's commercial driver's license number and State of issuance in Step 1, Section B of the ATF. (b) Identification information on the Federal Drug Testing Custody and Control Form (CCF). For each controlled substance test performed under this part, the employer shall provide the following information, which must be recorded as follows: (1) The driver's commercial driver's license number and State of issuance in Step 1, section C of the CCF. (2) The employer's name and other identifying information required in Step 1, section A of the CCF. [81 FR 87724, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 35639, July 7, 2021] Subpart B-Prohibitions &#xA7; 382.201 Alcohol concentration. No driver shall report for duty or remain on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions while having an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater. No employer having knowledge that a driver has an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater shall permit the driver to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 4483, Jan. 30, 2012] &#xA7; 382.205 On-duty use. No driver shall use alcohol while performing safety-sensitive functions. No employer having actual knowledge that a driver is using alcohol while performing safety-sensitive functions shall permit the driver to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. &#xA7; 382.207 Pre-duty use. No driver shall perform safety-sensitive functions within four hours after using alcohol. No employer having actual knowledge that a driver has used alcohol within four hours shall permit a driver to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. &#xA7; 382.209 Use following an accident. No driver required to take a post-accident alcohol test under &#xA7; 382.303 shall use alcohol for eight hours following the accident, or until he/she undergoes a post-accident alcohol test, whichever occurs first. &#xA7; 382.211 Refusal to submit to a required alcohol or controlled substances test. No driver shall refuse to submit to a pre-employment controlled substance test required under &#xA7; 382.301, a post-accident alcohol or controlled substance test required under &#xA7; 382.303, a random alcohol or controlled substances test required under &#xA7; 382.305, a reasonable suspicion alcohol or controlled substance test required under &#xA7; 382.307, a return-to-duty alcohol or controlled substances test required under &#xA7; 382.309, or a follow-up alcohol or controlled substance test required under &#xA7; 382.311. No employer shall permit a driver who refuses to submit to such tests to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. [77 FR 4483, Jan. 30, 2012] &#xA7; 382.213 Controlled substance use. (a) No driver shall report for duty or remain on duty requiring the performance of safety sensitive functions when the driver uses any drug or substance identified in 21 CFR 1308.11 Schedule I. (b) No driver shall report for duty or remain on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions when the driver uses any non-Schedule I drug or substance that is identified in the other Schedules in 21 CFR part 1308 except when the use is prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner, as defined in &#xA7; 382.107, who is familiar with the driver's medical history and has advised the driver that the substance will not adversely affect the driver's ability to safely operate a commercial motor vehicle. (c) No employer having actual knowledge that a driver has used a controlled substance, as defined in &#xA7; 382.107, shall permit the driver to perform or continue to perform a safety-sensitive function, except when the use is prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner, as defined in &#xA7; 382.107, who is familiar with the driver's medical history and has advised the driver that the substance will not adversely affect the driver's ability to safely operate a commercial motor vehicle. (d) An employer may require a driver to inform the employer of any therapeutic drug use. [77 FR 4483, Jan. 30, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 80180, Nov. 17, 2023] &#xA7; 382.215 Controlled substances testing. No driver shall report for duty, remain on duty or perform a safety-sensitive function, if the driver tests positive or has adulterated or substituted a test specimen for controlled substances. No employer having knowledge that a driver has tested positive or has adulterated or substituted a test specimen for controlled substances shall permit the driver to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 4483, Jan. 30, 2012] &#xA7; 382.217 Employer responsibilities. No employer may allow, require, permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which an employer determines that a driver is not in compliance with the return-to-duty requirements in 49 CFR part 40, subpart O, after the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) The driver receives a positive, adulterated, or substituted drug test result conducted under part 40 of this title. (b) The driver receives an alcohol confirmation test result of 0.04 or higher alcohol concentration conducted under part 40 of this title. (c) The driver refused to submit to a test for drugs or alcohol required under this part. (d) The driver used alcohol prior to a post-accident alcohol test in violation of &#xA7; 382.209. (e) An employer has actual knowledge, as defined at &#xA7; 382.107, that a driver has: (1) Used alcohol while performing safety-sensitive functions in violation of &#xA7; 382.205; (2) Used alcohol within four hours of performing safety-sensitive functions in violation of &#xA7; 382.207; or (3) Used a controlled substance, except when the use is prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner who is familiar with the driver's medical history and has advised the driver that the substance will not adversely affect the driver's ability to safely operate a commercial motor vehicle. [81 FR 87724, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 80180, Nov. 17, 2023] Subpart C-Tests Required &#xA7; 382.301 Pre-employment testing. (a) Prior to the first time a driver performs safety-sensitive functions for an employer, the driver shall undergo testing for controlled substances as a condition prior to being used, unless the employer uses the exception in paragraph (b) of this section. No employer shall allow a driver, who the employer intends to hire or use, to perform safety-sensitive functions unless the employer has received a controlled substances test result from the MRO or C/TPA indicating a verified negative test result for that driver. (b) An employer is not required to administer a controlled substances test required by paragraph (a) of this section if: (1) The driver has participated in a controlled substances testing program that meets the requirements of this part within the previous 30 days; and (2) While participating in that program, either: (i) Was tested for controlled substances within the past 6 months (from the date of application with the employer), or (ii) Participated in the random controlled substances testing program for the previous 12 months (from the date of application with the employer); and (3) The employer ensures that no prior employer of the driver of whom the employer has knowledge has records of a violation of this part or the controlled substances use rule of another DOT agency within the previous six months. (c)(1) An employer who exercises the exception in paragraph (b) of this section shall contact the controlled substances testing program(s) in which the driver participates or participated and shall obtain and retain from the testing program(s) the following information: (i) Name(s) and address(es) of the program(s). (ii) Verification that the driver participates or participated in the program(s). (iii) Verification that the program(s) conforms to part 40 of this title. (iv) Verification that the driver is qualified under the rules of this part, including that the driver has not refused to be tested for controlled substances. (v) The date the driver was last tested for controlled substances. (vi) The results of any tests taken within the previous six months and any other violations of subpart B of this part. (2) An employer who uses, but does not employ a driver more than once a year to operate commercial motor vehicles must obtain the information in paragraph (c)(1) of this section at least once every six months. The records prepared under this paragraph shall be maintained in accordance with &#xA7; 382.401. If the employer cannot verify that the driver is participating in a controlled substances testing program in accordance with this part and part 40 of this title, the employer shall conduct a pre-employment controlled substances test. (d) An employer may, but is not required to, conduct pre-employment alcohol testing under this part. If an employer chooses to conduct pre-employment alcohol testing, it must comply with the following requirements: (1) It must conduct a pre-employment alcohol test before the first performance of safety-sensitive functions by every covered employee (whether a new employee or someone who has transferred to a position involving the performance of safety-sensitive functions). (2) It must treat all safety-sensitive employees performing safety-sensitive functions the same for the purpose of pre-employment alcohol testing (i.e., it must not test some covered employees and not others). (3) It must conduct the pre-employment tests after making a contingent offer of employment or transfer, subject to the employee passing the pre-employment alcohol test. (4) It must conduct all pre-employment alcohol tests using the alcohol testing procedures of 49 CFR part 40 of this title. (5) It must not allow a covered employee to begin performing safety-sensitive functions unless the result of the employee's test indicates an alcohol concentration of less than 0.04. &#xA7; 382.303 Post-accident testing. (a) As soon as practicable following an occurrence involving a commercial motor vehicle operating on a public road in commerce, each employer shall test for alcohol for each of its surviving drivers: (1) Who was performing safety-sensitive functions with respect to the vehicle, if the accident involved the loss of human life; or (2) Who receives a citation within 8 hours of the occurrence under State or local law for a moving traffic violation arising from the accident, if the accident involved: (i) Bodily injury to any person who, as a result of the injury, immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or (ii) One or more motor vehicles incurring disabling damage as a result of the accident, requiring the motor vehicle to be transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other motor vehicle. (b) As soon as practicable following an occurrence involving a commercial motor vehicle operating on a public road in commerce, each employer shall test for controlled substances for each of its surviving drivers: (1) Who was performing safety-sensitive functions with respect to the vehicle, if the accident involved the loss of human life; or (2) Who receives a citation within thirty-two hours of the occurrence under State or local law for a moving traffic violation arising from the accident, if the accident involved: (i) Bodily injury to any person who, as a result of the injury, immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or (ii) One or more motor vehicles incurring disabling damage as a result of the accident, requiring the motor vehicle to be transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other motor vehicle. (c) The following table notes when a post-accident test is required to be conducted by paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), and (b)(2) of this section: Table for &#xA7; 382.303( a ) and ( b ) Type of accident involved Citation issued to the CMV driver Test must be performed by employer i. Human fatality YES NO YES YES ii. Bodily injury with immediate medical treatment away from the scene YES NO YES NO iii. Disabling damage to any motor vehicle requiring tow away YES NO YES NO (d)(1) Alcohol tests. If a test required by this section is not administered within two hours following the accident, the employer shall prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons the test was not promptly administered. If a test required by this section is not administered within eight hours following the accident, the employer shall cease attempts to administer an alcohol test and shall prepare and maintain the same record. Records shall be submitted to the FMCSA upon request. (2) Controlled substance tests. If a test required by this section is not administered within 32 hours following the accident, the employer shall cease attempts to administer a controlled substances test, and prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons the test was not promptly administered. Records shall be submitted to the FMCSA upon request. (e) A driver who is subject to post-accident testing shall remain readily available for such testing or may be deemed by the employer to have refused to submit to testing. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the delay of necessary medical attention for injured people following an accident or to prohibit a driver from leaving the scene of an accident for the period necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident, or to obtain necessary emergency medical care. (f) An employer shall provide drivers with necessary post-accident information, procedures and instructions, prior to the driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, so that drivers will be able to comply with the requirements of this section. (g)(1) The results of a breath or blood test for the use of alcohol, conducted by Federal, State, or local law enforcement or public safety officials having independent authority for the test, shall be considered to meet the requirements of this section, provided such tests conform to the applicable Federal, State or local alcohol testing requirements, and that the results of the tests are obtained by the employer. (2) The results of a urine test for the use of controlled substances, conducted by Federal, State, or local law enforcement or public safety officials having independent authority for the test, shall be considered to meet the requirements of this section, provided such tests conform to the applicable Federal, State or local controlled substances testing requirements, and that the results of the tests are obtained by the employer. (h) Exception. This section does not apply to: (1) An occurrence involving only boarding or alighting from a stationary motor vehicle; or (2) An occurrence involving only the loading or unloading of cargo; or (3) An occurrence in the course of the operation of a passenger car or a multipurpose passenger vehicle (as defined in &#xA7; 571.3 of this title) by an employer unless the motor vehicle is transporting passengers for hire or hazardous materials of a type and quantity that require the motor vehicle to be marked or placarded in accordance with &#xA7; 177.823 of this title. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 87 FR 59035, Sept. 29, 2022] &#xA7; 382.305 Random testing. (a) Every employer shall comply with the requirements of this section. Every driver shall submit to random alcohol and controlled substance testing as required in this section. (b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing shall be 10 percent of the average number of driver positions. (2) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) through (h) of this section, the minimum annual percentage rate for random controlled substances testing shall be 50 percent of the average number of driver positions. (c) The FMCSA Administrator's decision to increase or decrease the minimum annual percentage rate for alcohol testing is based on the reported violation rate for the entire industry. All information used for this determination is drawn from the alcohol management information system reports required by &#xA7; 382.403. In order to ensure reliability of the data, the FMCSA Administrator considers the quality and completeness of the reported data, may obtain additional information or reports from employers, and may make appropriate modifications in calculating the industry violation rate. In the event of a change in the annual percentage rate, the FMCSA Administrator will publish in the Federal Register the new minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing of drivers. The new minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing will be applicable starting January 1 of the calendar year following publication in the Federal Register. (d)(1) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 25 percent or more, the FMCSA Administrator may lower this rate to 10 percent of all driver positions if the FMCSA Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 382.403 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the violation rate is less than 0.5 percent. (2) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 50 percent, the FMCSA Administrator may lower this rate to 25 percent of all driver positions if the FMCSA Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 382.403 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the violation rate is less than 1.0 percent but equal to or greater than 0.5 percent. (e)(1) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 10 percent, and the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 382.403 for that calendar year indicate that the violation rate is equal to or greater than 0.5 percent, but less than 1.0 percent, the FMCSA Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing to 25 percent for all driver positions. (2) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing is 25 percent or less, and the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 382.403 for that calendar year indicate that the violation rate is equal to or greater than 1.0 percent, the FMCSA Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random alcohol testing to 50 percent for all driver positions. (f) The FMCSA Administrator's decision to increase or decrease the minimum annual percentage rate for controlled substances testing is based on the reported positive rate for the entire industry. All information used for this determination is drawn from the controlled substances management information system reports required by &#xA7; 382.403. In order to ensure reliability of the data, the FMCSA Administrator considers the quality and completeness of the reported data, may obtain additional information or reports from employers, and may make appropriate modifications in calculating the industry positive rate. In the event of a change in the annual percentage rate, the FMCSA Administrator will publish in the Federal Register the new minimum annual percentage rate for controlled substances testing of drivers. The new minimum annual percentage rate for random controlled substances testing will be applicable starting January 1 of the calendar year following publication in the Federal Register. (g) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random controlled substances testing is 50 percent, the FMCSA Administrator may lower this rate to 25 percent of all driver positions if the FMCSA Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 382.403 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the positive rate is less than 1.0 percent. (h) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random controlled substances testing is 25 percent, and the data received under the reporting requirements of &#xA7; 382.403 for any calendar year indicate that the reported positive rate is equal to or greater than 1.0 percent, the FMCSA Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random controlled substances testing to 50 percent of all driver positions. (i)(1) The selection of drivers for random alcohol and controlled substances testing shall be made by a scientifically valid method, such as a random number table or a computer-based random number generator that is matched with drivers' Social Security numbers, payroll identification numbers, or other comparable identifying numbers. (2) Each driver selected for random alcohol and controlled substances testing under the selection process used, shall have an equal chance of being tested each time selections are made. (3) Each driver selected for testing shall be tested during the selection period. (j)(1)To calculate the total number of covered drivers eligible for random testing throughout the year, as an employer, you must add the total number of covered drivers eligible for testing during each random testing period for the year and divide that total by the number of random testing periods. Covered employees, and only covered employees, are to be in an employer's random testing pool, and all covered drivers must be in the random pool. If you are an employer conducting random testing more often than once per month ( e.g., daily, weekly, bi-weekly) you do not need to compute this total number of covered drivers rate more than on a once per month basis. (2) As an employer, you may use a service agent ( e.g., a C/TPA) to perform random selections for you, and your covered drivers may be part of a larger random testing pool of covered employees. However, you must ensure that the service agent you use is testing at the appropriate percentage established for your industry and that only covered employees are in the random testing pool. (k)(1) Each employer shall ensure that random alcohol and controlled substances tests conducted under this part are unannounced. (2) Each employer shall ensure that the dates for administering random alcohol and controlled substances tests conducted under this part are spread reasonably throughout the calendar year. (l) Each employer shall require that each driver who is notified of selection for random alcohol and/or controlled substances testing proceeds to the test site immediately; provided, however, that if the driver is performing a safety-sensitive function, other than driving a commercial motor vehicle, at the time of notification, the employer shall instead ensure that the driver ceases to perform the safety-sensitive function and proceeds to the testing site as soon as possible. (m) A driver shall only be tested for alcohol while the driver is performing safety-sensitive functions, just before the driver is to perform safety-sensitive functions, or just after the driver has ceased performing such functions. (n) If a given driver is subject to random alcohol or controlled substances testing under the random alcohol or controlled substances testing rules of more than one DOT agency for the same employer, the driver shall be subject to random alcohol and/or controlled substances testing at the annual percentage rate established for the calendar year by the DOT agency regulating more than 50 percent of the driver's function. (o) If an employer is required to conduct random alcohol or controlled substances testing under the alcohol or controlled substances testing rules of more than one DOT agency, the employer may- (1) Establish separate pools for random selection, with each pool containing the DOT-covered employees who are subject to testing at the same required minimum annual percentage rate; or (2) Randomly select such employees for testing at the highest minimum annual percentage rate established for the calendar year by any DOT agency to which the employer is subject. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 61821, Oct. 2, 2002; 68 FR 75459, Dec. 31, 2003; 81 FR 68346, Oct. 4, 2016; 86 FR 57069, Oct. 14, 2021] &#xA7; 382.307 Reasonable suspicion testing. (a) An employer shall require a driver to submit to an alcohol test when the employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that the driver has violated the prohibitions of subpart B of this part concerning alcohol. The employer's determination that reasonable suspicion exists to require the driver to undergo an alcohol test must be based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or body odors of the driver. (b) An employer shall require a driver to submit to a controlled substances test when the employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that the driver has violated the prohibitions of subpart B of this part concerning controlled substances. The employer's determination that reasonable suspicion exists to require the driver to undergo a controlled substances test must be based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or body odors of the driver. The observations may include indications of the chronic and withdrawal effects of controlled substances. (c) The required observations for alcohol and/or controlled substances reasonable suspicion testing shall be made by a supervisor or company official who is trained in accordance with &#xA7; 382.603. The person who makes the determination that reasonable suspicion exists to conduct an alcohol test shall not conduct the alcohol test of the driver. (d) Alcohol testing is authorized by this section only if the observations required by paragraph (a) of this section are made during, just preceding, or just after the period of the work day that the driver is required to be in compliance with this part. A driver may be directed by the employer to only undergo reasonable suspicion testing while the driver is performing safety-sensitive functions, just before the driver is to perform safety-sensitive functions, or just after the driver has ceased performing such functions. (e)(1) If an alcohol test required by this section is not administered within two hours following the determination under paragraph (a) of this section, the employer shall prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons the alcohol test was not promptly administered. If an alcohol test required by this section is not administered within eight hours following the determination under paragraph (a) of this section, the employer shall cease attempts to administer an alcohol test and shall state in the record the reasons for not administering the test. (2) Notwithstanding the absence of a reasonable suspicion alcohol test under this section, no driver shall report for duty or remain on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions while the driver is under the influence of or impaired by alcohol, as shown by the behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of alcohol misuse, nor shall an employer permit the driver to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions, until: (i) An alcohol test is administered and the driver's alcohol concentration measures less than 0.02; or (ii) Twenty four hours have elapsed following the determination under paragraph (a) of this section that there is reasonable suspicion to believe that the driver has violated the prohibitions in this part concerning the use of alcohol. (3) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, no employer shall take any action under this part against a driver based solely on the driver's behavior and appearance, with respect to alcohol use, in the absence of an alcohol test. This does not prohibit an employer with independent authority of this part from taking any action otherwise consistent with law. (f) A written record shall be made of the observations leading to an alcohol or controlled substances reasonable suspicion test, and signed by the supervisor or company official who made the observations, within 24 hours of the observed behavior or before the results of the alcohol or controlled substances tests are released, whichever is earlier. &#xA7; 382.309 Return-to-duty testing. The requirements for return-to-duty testing must be performed in accordance with 49 CFR part 40, subpart O. &#xA7; 382.311 Follow-up testing. The requirements for follow-up testing must be performed in accordance with 49 CFR part 40, subpart O. Subpart D-Handling of Test Results, Records Retention, and Confidentiality &#xA7; 382.401 Retention of records. (a) General requirement. Each employer shall maintain records of its alcohol misuse and controlled substances use prevention programs as provided in this section. The records shall be maintained in a secure location with controlled access. (b) Period of retention. Each employer shall maintain the records in accordance with the following schedule: (1) Five years. The following records shall be maintained for a minimum of five years: (i) Records of driver alcohol test results indicating an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater, (ii) Records of driver verified positive controlled substances test results, (iii) Documentation of refusals to take required alcohol and/or controlled substances tests, (iv) Driver evaluation and referrals, (v) Calibration documentation, (vi) Records related to the administration of the alcohol and controlled substances testing program, including records of all driver violations, and (vii) A copy of each annual calendar year summary required by &#xA7; 382.403. (2) Two years. Records related to the alcohol and controlled substances collection process (except calibration of evidential breath testing devices) shall be maintained for a minimum of 2 years. (3) One year. Records of negative and canceled controlled substances test results and MRO reversal of canceled controlled substances test results (as defined in part 40 of this title) and alcohol test results with a concentration of less than 0.02 shall be maintained for a minimum of one year. (4) Indefinite period. Records related to the education and training of breath alcohol technicians, screening test technicians, supervisors, and drivers shall be maintained by the employer while the individual performs the functions which require the training and for two years after ceasing to perform those functions. (c) Types of records. The following specific types of records shall be maintained. &#x201C;Documents generated&#x201D; are documents that may have to be prepared under a requirement of this part. If the record is required to be prepared, it must be maintained. (1) Records related to the collection process: (i) Collection logbooks, if used; (ii) Documents relating to the random selection process; (iii) Calibration documentation for evidential breath testing devices; (iv) Documentation of breath alcohol technician training; (v) Documents generated in connection with decisions to administer reasonable suspicion alcohol or controlled substances tests; (vi) Documents generated in connection with decisions on post-accident tests; (vii) Documents verifying existence of a medical explanation of the inability of a driver to provide adequate breath or to provide a urine or oral fluid specimen for testing; and (viii) A copy of each annual calendar year summary as required by &#xA7; 382.403. (2) Records related to a driver's test results: (i) The employer's copy of the alcohol test form, including the results of the test; (ii) The employer's copy of the controlled substances test chain of custody and control form; (iii) Documents sent by the MRO to the employer, including those required by part 40, subpart G, of this title; (iv) Documents related to the refusal of any driver to submit to an alcohol or controlled substances test required by this part; (v) Documents presented by a driver to dispute the result of an alcohol or controlled substances test administered under this part; and (vi) Documents generated in connection with verifications of prior employers' alcohol or controlled substances test results that the employer: (A) Must obtain in connection with the exception contained in &#xA7; 382.301, and (B) Must obtain as required by &#xA7; 382.413. (3) Records related to other violations of this part. (4) Records related to evaluations: (i) Records pertaining to a determination by a substance abuse professional concerning a driver's need for assistance; and (ii) Records concerning a driver's compliance with recommendations of the substance abuse professional. (5) Records related to education and training: (i) Materials on alcohol misuse and controlled substance use awareness, including a copy of the employer's policy on alcohol misuse and controlled substance use; (ii) Documentation of compliance with the requirements of &#xA7; 382.601, including the driver's signed receipt of education materials; (iii) Documentation of training provided to supervisors for the purpose of qualifying the supervisors to make a determination concerning the need for alcohol and/or controlled substances testing based on reasonable suspicion; (iv) Documentation of training for breath alcohol technicians as required by &#xA7; 40.213(g) of this title; and (v) Certification that any training conducted under this part complies with the requirements for such training. (6) Administrative records related to alcohol and controlled substances testing: (i) Agreements with collection site facilities, laboratories, breath alcohol technicians, screening test technicians, medical review officers, consortia, and third-party service providers; (ii) Names and positions of officials and their role in the employer's alcohol and controlled substances testing program(s); (iii) Semi-annual laboratory statistical summaries of urinalysis required by &#xA7; 40.111(a) of this title; and (iv) The employer's alcohol and controlled substances testing policy and procedures. (d) Location of records. All records required by this part shall be maintained as required by &#xA7; 390.29 of this subchapter and shall be made available for inspection at the employer's principal place of business within two business days after a request has been made by an authorized representative of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. (e) OMB control number. (1) The information collection requirements of this part have been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) and have been assigned OMB control number 2126-0012. (2) The information collection requirements of this part are found in the following sections: Sections 382.105, 382.113, 382.301, 382.303, 382.305, 382.307, 382.401, 382.403, 382.405, 382.409, 382.411, 382.601, 382.603. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 61821, Oct. 2, 2002; 68 FR 75459, Dec. 31, 2003; 78 FR 58479, Sept. 24, 2013; 81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016; 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023; 88 FR 80180, Nov. 17, 2023] &#xA7; 382.403 Reporting of results in a management information system. (a) An employer shall prepare and maintain a summary of the results of its alcohol and controlled substances testing programs performed under this part during the previous calendar year, when requested by the Secretary of Transportation, any DOT agency, or any State or local officials with regulatory authority over the employer or any of its drivers. (b) If an employer is notified, during the month of January, of a request by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to report the employer's annual calendar year summary information, the employer shall prepare and submit the report to the FMCSA by March 15 of that year. The employer shall ensure that the annual summary report is accurate and received by March 15 at the location that the FMCSA specifies in its request. The employer must use the Management Information System (MIS) form and instructions as required by 49 CFR part 40 (at &#xA7; 40.26 and appendix J to part 40). The employer may also use the electronic version of the MIS form provided by the DOT. The Administrator may designate means ( e.g., electronic program transmitted via the Internet), other than hard-copy, for MIS form submission. For information on the electronic version of the form, see: http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/safetyprogs/drugs/engtesting.htm. (c) When the report is submitted to the FMCSA by mail or electronic transmission, the information requested shall be typed, except for the signature of the certifying official. Each employer shall ensure the accuracy and timeliness of each report submitted by the employer or a consortium. (d) If you have a covered employee who performs multi-DOT agency functions ( e.g., an employee drives a commercial motor vehicle and performs pipeline maintenance duties for the same employer), count the employee only on the MIS report for the DOT agency under which he or she is randomly tested. Normally, this will be the DOT agency under which the employee performs more than 50% of his or her duties. Employers may have to explain the testing data for these employees in the event of a DOT agency inspection or audit. (e) A service agent ( e.g., Consortium/Third-party administrator as defined in 49 CFR 382.107) may prepare the MIS report on behalf of an employer. However, a company official ( e.g., Designated employer representative as defined in &#xA7; 382.107) must certify the accuracy and completeness of the MIS report, no matter who prepares it. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 75459, Dec. 31, 2003; 78 FR 58479, Sept. 24, 2013; 83 FR 22875, May 17, 2018; 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023; 88 FR 80181, Nov. 17, 2023] &#xA7; 382.405 Access to facilities and records. (a) Except as required by law or expressly authorized or required in this section, no employer shall release driver information that is contained in records required to be maintained under &#xA7; 382.401. (b) A driver is entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of any records pertaining to the driver's use of alcohol or controlled substances, including any records pertaining to his or her alcohol or controlled substances tests. The employer shall promptly provide the records requested by the driver. Access to a driver's records shall not be contingent upon payment for records other than those specifically requested. (c) Each employer shall permit access to all facilities utilized in complying with the requirements of this part to the Secretary of Transportation, any DOT agency, or any State or local officials with regulatory authority over the employer or any of its drivers. (d) Each employer, and each service agent who maintains records for an employer, must make available copies of all results for DOT alcohol and/or controlled substances testing conducted by the employer under this part and any other information pertaining to the employer's alcohol misuse and/or controlled substances use prevention program when requested by the Secretary of Transportation, any DOT agency, or any State or local officials with regulatory authority over the employer or any of its drivers. (e) When requested by the National Transportation Safety Board as a part of a crash investigation: (1) Employers must disclose information related to the employer's administration of a post-accident alcohol and/or a controlled substances test administered following the crash under investigation; and (2) FMCSA will provide access to information in the Clearinghouse concerning drivers who are involved with the crash under investigation. (f) Records shall be made available to a subsequent employer upon receipt of a written request from a driver. Disclosure by the subsequent employer is permitted only as expressly authorized by the terms of the driver's request. (g) An employer may disclose information required to be maintained under this part pertaining to a driver to the decision maker in a lawsuit, grievance, or administrative proceeding initiated by or on behalf of the individual, and arising from a positive DOT drug or alcohol test or a refusal to test (including, but not limited to, adulterated or substituted test results) of this part (including, but not limited to, a worker's compensation, unemployment compensation, or other proceeding relating to a benefit sought by the driver). Additionally, an employer may disclose information in criminal or civil actions in accordance with &#xA7; 40.323(a)(2) of this title. (h) An employer shall release information regarding a driver's records as directed by the specific written consent of the driver authorizing release of the information to an identified person. Release of such information by the person receiving the information is permitted only in accordance with the terms of the employee's specific written consent as outlined in &#xA7; 40.321(b) of this title. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016] &#xA7; 382.407 Medical review officer notifications to the employer. Medical review officers shall report the results of controlled substances tests to employers in accordance with the requirements of part 40, Subpart G, of this title. &#xA7; 382.409 Medical review officer or consortium/third-party administrator record retention for controlled substances. (a) A medical review officer or third-party administrator shall maintain all dated records and notifications, identified by individual, for a minimum of five years for verified positive controlled substances test results. (b) A medical review officer or third-party administrator shall maintain all dated records and notifications, identified by individual, for a minimum of one year for negative and canceled controlled substances test results and MRO reversal of cancelled controlled substances test results. (c) No person may obtain the individual controlled substances test results retained by a medical review officer (MRO as defined in &#xA7; 40.3 of this title) or a consortium/third-party administrator (C/TPA as defined in &#xA7; 382.107), and no MRO or C/TPA may release the individual controlled substances test results of any driver to any person, without first obtaining a specific, written authorization from the tested driver. Nothing in this paragraph (c) shall prohibit a MRO or a C/TPA from releasing to the employer, the Clearinghouse, or to the Secretary of Transportation, any DOT agency, or any State or local officials with regulatory authority over the controlled substances and alcohol testing program under this part, the information delineated in part 40, subpart G, of this title. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016; 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023; 88 FR 80181, Nov. 17, 2023] &#xA7; 382.411 Employer notifications. (a) An employer shall notify a driver of the results of a pre-employment controlled substances test conducted under this part, if the driver requests such results within 60 calendar days of being notified of the disposition of the employment application. An employer shall notify a driver of the results of random, reasonable suspicion and post-accident tests for controlled substances conducted under this part if the test results are verified positive. The employer shall also inform the driver which controlled substance or substances were verified as positive. (b) The designated employer representative shall make reasonable efforts to contact and request each driver who submitted a specimen under the employer's program, regardless of the driver's employment status, to contact and discuss the results of the controlled substances test with a medical review officer who has been unable to contact the driver. (c) The designated employer representative shall immediately notify the medical review officer that the driver has been notified to contact the medical review officer within 72 hours. &#xA7; 382.413 Inquiries for alcohol and controlled substances information from previous employers. (a) Employers must request alcohol and controlled substances information from previous employers in accordance with the requirements of &#xA7; 391.23(e). (b) As of January 6, 2023, employers must use the Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse in accordance with &#xA7; 382.701(a) to comply with the requirements of &#xA7; 391.23(e) with respect to FMCSA-regulated employers. Exception: When an employee who is subject to follow-up testing has not successfully completed all follow-up tests, employers must request the employee's follow-up testing plan directly from the previous employer in accordance with &#xA7; 391.23(e)(4)(i). (c) If an applicant was subject to an alcohol and controlled substance testing program under the requirements of a DOT Agency other than FMCSA, the employer must request the alcohol and controlled substances information required under this section and &#xA7; 391.23(e) directly from those employers regulated by a DOT Agency other than FMCSA. [89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024] &#xA7; 382.415 Notification to employers of a controlled substances or alcohol testing program violation. Each person holding a commercial driver's license and subject to the DOT controlled substances and alcohol testing requirements in this part who has violated the alcohol and controlled substances prohibitions under part 40 of this title or this part without complying with the requirements of part 40, subpart O, must notify in writing all current employers of such violation(s). The driver is not required to provide notification to the employer that administered the test or documented the circumstances that gave rise to the violation. The notification must be made before the end of the business day following the day the employee received notice of the violation, or prior to performing any safety-sensitive function, whichever comes first. [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016] Subpart E-Consequences for Drivers Engaging in Substance Use-Related Conduct &#xA7; 382.501 Removal from safety-sensitive function. (a) Except as provided in subpart F of this part, no driver shall perform safety-sensitive functions, including driving a commercial motor vehicle, if the driver has engaged in conduct prohibited by subpart B of this part or an alcohol or controlled substances rule of another DOT agency. (b) No employer shall permit any driver to perform safety-sensitive functions, including driving a commercial motor vehicle, if the employer has determined that the driver has violated this section. (c) For purposes of this subpart, commercial motor vehicle means a commercial motor vehicle in commerce as defined in &#xA7; 382.107, and a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce as defined in part 390 of this subchapter. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024] &#xA7; 382.503 Required evaluation and testing, reinstatement of commercial driving privilege. (a) No driver who has engaged in conduct prohibited by subpart B of this part shall perform safety-sensitive functions, including driving a commercial motor vehicle, unless the driver has met the requirements of part 40, subpart O, of this title. No employer shall permit a driver who has engaged in conduct prohibited by subpart B of this part to perform safety-sensitive functions, including driving a commercial motor vehicle, unless the driver has met the requirements of part 40, subpart O, of this title. (b) No driver whose commercial driving privilege has been removed from the driver's license, pursuant to &#xA7; 382.501(a), shall drive a commercial motor vehicle until the State Driver Licensing Agency reinstates the CLP or CDL privilege to the driver's license. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 86 FR 55741, Oct. 7, 2021] &#xA7; 382.505 Other alcohol-related conduct. (a) No driver tested under the provisions of subpart C of this part who is found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04 shall perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions for an employer, including driving a commercial motor vehicle, nor shall an employer permit the driver to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions, until the start of the driver's next regularly scheduled duty period, but not less than 24 hours following administration of the test. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, no employer shall take any action under this part against a driver based solely on test results showing an alcohol concentration less than 0.04. This does not prohibit an employer with authority independent of this part from taking any action otherwise consistent with law. &#xA7; 382.507 Penalties. Any employer or driver who violates the requirements of this part shall be subject to the civil and/or criminal penalty provisions of 49 U.S.C. 521(b). In addition, any employer or driver who violates the requirements of 49 CFR part 40 shall be subject to the civil and/or criminal penalty provisions of 49 U.S.C. 521(b). Subpart F-Alcohol Misuse and Controlled Substances Use Information, Training, and Referral &#xA7; 382.601 Employer obligation to promulgate a policy on the misuse of alcohol and use of controlled substances. (a) General requirements. Each employer shall provide educational materials that explain the requirements of this part and the employer's policies and procedures with respect to meeting these requirements. (1) The employer shall ensure that a copy of these materials is distributed to each driver prior to the start of alcohol and controlled substances testing under this part and to each driver subsequently hired or transferred into a position requiring driving a commercial motor vehicle. (2) Each employer shall provide written notice to representatives of employee organizations of the availability of this information. (b) Required content. The materials to be made available to drivers shall include detailed discussion of at least the following: (1) The identity of the person designated by the employer to answer driver questions about the materials; (2) The categories of drivers who are subject to the provisions of this part; (3) Sufficient information about the safety-sensitive functions performed by those drivers to make clear what period of the work day the driver is required to be in compliance with this part; (4) Specific information concerning driver conduct that is prohibited by this part; (5) The circumstances under which a driver will be tested for alcohol and/or controlled substances under this part, including post-accident testing under &#xA7; 382.303; (6) The procedures that will be used to test for the presence of alcohol and controlled substances, protect the driver and the integrity of the testing processes, safeguard the validity of the test results, and ensure that those results are attributed to the correct driver, including post-accident information, procedures and instructions required by &#xA7; 382.303; (7) The requirement that a driver submit to alcohol and controlled substances tests administered in accordance with this part; (8) An explanation of what constitutes a refusal to submit to an alcohol or controlled substances test and the attendant consequences; (9) The consequences for drivers found to have violated subpart B of this part, including the requirement that the driver be removed immediately from safety-sensitive functions, and the procedures under part 40, subpart O, of this title; (10) The consequences for drivers found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04; (11) Information concerning the effects of alcohol and controlled substances use on an individual's health, work, and personal life; signs and symptoms of an alcohol or a controlled substances problem (the driver's or a co-worker's); and available methods of intervening when an alcohol or a controlled substances problem is suspected, including confrontation, referral to any employee assistance program and/or referral to management; and (12) The requirement that the following personal information collected and maintained under this part shall be reported to the Clearinghouse: (i) A verified positive, adulterated, or substituted drug test result; (ii) An alcohol confirmation test with a concentration of 0.04 or higher; (iii) A refusal to submit to any test required by subpart C of this part; (iv) An employer's report of actual knowledge, as defined at &#xA7; 382.107: (A) On duty alcohol use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.205; (B) Pre-duty alcohol use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.207; (C) Alcohol use following an accident pursuant to &#xA7; 382.209; and (D) Controlled substance use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.213; (v) A substance abuse professional (SAP as defined in &#xA7; 40.3 of this title) report of the successful completion of the return-to-duty process; (vi) A negative return-to-duty test; and (vii) An employer's report of completion of follow-up testing. (c) Optional provision. The materials supplied to drivers may also include information on additional employer policies with respect to the use of alcohol or controlled substances, including any consequences for a driver found to have a specified alcohol or controlled substances level, that are based on the employer's authority independent of this part. Any such additional policies or consequences must be clearly and obviously described as being based on independent authority. (d) Certificate of receipt. Each employer shall ensure that each driver is required to sign a statement certifying that he or she has received a copy of these materials described in this section. Each employer shall maintain the signed certificate and may provide a copy of the certificate to the driver. [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 58479, Sept. 24, 2013; 81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016; 83 FR 16226, Apr. 16, 2018; 89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024] &#xA7; 382.603 Training for supervisors. Each employer shall ensure that all persons designated to supervise drivers receive at least 60 minutes of training on alcohol misuse and receive at least an additional 60 minutes of training on controlled substances use. The training will be used by the supervisors to determine whether reasonable suspicion exists to require a driver to undergo testing under &#xA7; 382.307. The training shall include the physical, behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse and use of controlled substances. Recurrent training for supervisory personnel is not required. &#xA7; 382.605 Referral, evaluation, and treatment. The requirements for referral, evaluation, and treatment must be performed in accordance with 49 CFR part 40, Subpart O. Subpart G-Requirements and Procedures for Implementation of the Commercial Driver's License Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse Source: 81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 382.701 Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse. (a) Pre-employment query required. (1) Employers must not employ a driver subject to controlled substances and alcohol testing under this part to perform a safety-sensitive function without first conducting a pre-employment query of the Clearinghouse to obtain information about whether the driver has a verified positive, adulterated, or substituted controlled substances test result; has an alcohol confirmation test with a concentration of 0.04 or higher; has refused to submit to a test in violation of &#xA7; 382.211; or that an employer has reported actual knowledge, as defined at &#xA7; 382.107, that the driver used alcohol on duty in violation of &#xA7; 382.205, used alcohol before duty in violation of &#xA7; 382.207, used alcohol following an accident in violation of &#xA7; 382.209, or used a controlled substance, in violation of &#xA7; 382.213. (2) The employer must conduct a full query under this section, which releases information in the Clearinghouse to an employer and requires that the individual driver give specific consent. (b) Annual query required. (1) Employers must conduct a query of the Clearinghouse at least once per year for information for all employees subject to controlled substance and alcohol testing under this part to determine whether information exists in the Clearinghouse about those employees. (2) In lieu of a full query, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an employer may obtain the individual driver's consent to conduct a limited query to satisfy the annual query requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The limited query will tell the employer whether there is information about the individual driver in the Clearinghouse, but will not release that information to the employer. The individual driver may give consent to conduct limited queries that is effective for more than one year. (3) If the limited query shows that information exists in the Clearinghouse about the individual driver, the employer must conduct a full query, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, within 24 hours of conducting the limited query. If the employer fails to conduct a full query within 24 hours, the employer must not allow the driver to continue to perform any safety-sensitive function until the employer conducts the full query and the results confirm that the driver's Clearinghouse record contains no prohibitions as defined in paragraph (d) of this section. (c) Employer notification. If any information described in paragraph (a) of this section is entered into the Clearinghouse about a driver during the 30-day period immediately following an employer conducting a query of that driver's records, FMCSA will notify the employer. (d) Prohibition. No employer may allow a driver the employer employs or intends to hire or use to perform any safety-sensitive function if the results of a Clearinghouse query demonstrate that the driver has a verified positive, adulterated, or substituted controlled substances test result; has an alcohol confirmation test with a concentration of 0.04 or higher; has refused to submit to a test in violation of &#xA7; 382.211; or that an employer has reported actual knowledge, as defined at &#xA7; 382.107, that the driver used alcohol on duty in violation of &#xA7; 382.205, used alcohol before duty in violation of &#xA7; 382.207, used alcohol following an accident in violation of &#xA7; 382.209, or used a controlled substance in violation of &#xA7; 382.213, except where a query of the Clearinghouse demonstrates: (1) That the driver has successfully completed the SAP evaluation, referral, and education/treatment process set forth in part 40, subpart O, of this title; achieves a negative return-to-duty test result; and completes the follow-up testing plan prescribed by the SAP. (2) That, if the driver has not completed all follow-up tests as prescribed by the SAP in accordance with &#xA7; 40.307 of this title and specified in the SAP report required by &#xA7; 40.311 of this title, the driver has completed the SAP evaluation, referral, and education/treatment process set forth in part 40, subpart O, of this title and achieves a negative return-to-duty test result, and the employer assumes the responsibility for managing the follow-up testing process associated with the testing violation. (e) Recordkeeping required. Employers must retain for 3 years a record of each query and all information received in response to each query made under this section. As of January 6, 2023, an employer who maintains a valid registration fulfills this requirement. [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 35639, July 7, 2021] &#xA7; 382.703 Driver consent to permit access to information in the Clearinghouse. (a) No employer may query the Clearinghouse to determine whether a record exists for any particular driver without first obtaining that driver's written or electronic consent. The employer conducting the search must retain the consent for 3 years from the date of the last query. (b) Before the employer may access information contained in the driver's Clearinghouse record, the driver must submit electronic consent through the Clearinghouse granting the employer access to the following specific records: (1) A verified positive, adulterated, or substituted controlled substances test result; (2) An alcohol confirmation test with a concentration of 0.04 or higher; (3) A refusal to submit to a test in violation of &#xA7; 382.211; (4) An employer's report of actual knowledge, as defined at &#xA7; 382.107, of: (i) On duty alcohol use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.205; (ii) Pre-duty alcohol use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.207; (iii) Alcohol use following an accident pursuant to &#xA7; 382.209; and (iv) Controlled substance use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.213; (5) A SAP report of the successful completion of the return-to-duty process; (6) A negative return-to-duty test; and (7) An employer's report of completion of follow-up testing. (c) No employer may permit a driver to perform a safety-sensitive function if the driver refuses to grant the consent required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. (d) A driver granting consent under this section must provide consent electronically to the Agency through the Clearinghouse prior to release of information to an employer in accordance with &#xA7; 382.701(a)(2) or (b)(3). (e) A driver granting consent under this section grants consent for the Agency to release information to an employer in accordance with &#xA7; 382.701(c). [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 57069, Oct. 14, 2021] &#xA7; 382.705 Reporting to the Clearinghouse. (a) MROs. (1) Within 2 business days of making a determination or verification, MROs must report the following information about a driver to the Clearinghouse: (i) Verified positive, adulterated, or substituted controlled substances test results; (ii) Refusal-to-test determination by the MRO in accordance with 49 CFR 40.191(a)(5), (7), and (11), (b), and (d)(2). (2) MROs must provide the following information for each controlled substances test result specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section: (i) Reason for the test; (ii) Federal Drug Testing Custody and Control Form specimen ID number; (iii) Driver's name, date of birth, and CDL number and State of issuance; (iv) Employer's name, address, and USDOT number, if applicable; (v) Date of the test; (vi) Date of the verified result; and (vii) Test result. The test result must be one of the following: (A) Positive (including the controlled substance(s) identified); (B) Refusal to test: Adulterated; (C) Refusal to test: Substituted; or (D) Refusal to provide a sufficient specimen after the MRO makes a determination, in accordance with &#xA7; 40.193 of this title, that the employee does not have a medical condition that has, or with a high degree of probability could have, precluded the employee from providing a sufficient amount of urine or oral fluid. Under this subpart a refusal would also include a refusal to undergo a medical examination or evaluation to substantiate a qualifying medical condition. (3) Within 1 business day of making any change to the results report in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a MRO must report that changed result to the Clearinghouse. (b) Employers. (1) Employers must report the following information about a driver to the Clearinghouse by the close of the third business day following the date on which they obtained that information: (i) An alcohol confirmation test result with an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater; (ii) A negative return-to-duty test result; (iii) A refusal to take an alcohol test pursuant to 49 CFR 40.261; (iv) A refusal to test determination made in accordance with 49 CFR 40.191(a)(1) through (4), (a)(6), (a)(8) through (11), or (d)(1), but in the case of a refusal to test under (a)(11), the employer may report only those admissions made to the specimen collector; and (v) A report that the driver has successfully completed all follow-up tests as prescribed in the SAP report in accordance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 40.307, 40.309, and 40.311 of this title. (2) The information required to be reported under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include, as applicable: (i) Reason for the test; (ii) Driver's name, date of birth, and CDL number and State of issuance; (iii) Employer name, address, and USDOT number; (iv) Date of the test; (v) Date the result was reported; and (vi) Test result. The test result must be one of the following: (A) Negative (only required for return-to-duty tests administered in accordance with &#xA7; 382.309); (B) Positive; or (C) Refusal to take a test. (3) For each report of a violation of 49 CFR 40.261(a)(1) or 40.191(a)(1), the employer must report the following information: (i) Documentation, including, but not limited to, electronic mail or other contemporaneous record of the time and date the driver was notified to appear at a testing site; and the time, date and testing site location at which the employee was directed to appear, or an affidavit providing evidence of such notification; (ii) Documentation, including, but not limited to, electronic mail or other correspondence, or an affidavit, indicating the date the employee was terminated or resigned (if applicable); (iii) Documentation, including, but not limited to, electronic mail or other correspondence, or an affidavit, showing that the C/TPA reporting the violation was authorized to act as a service agent for an employer who employs himself/herself as a driver pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section when the reported refusal occurred (if applicable); and (iv) Documentation, including a certificate of service or other evidence, showing that the employer provided the employee with all documentation reported under paragraph (b)(3) of this section (if applicable). (4) Employers must report the following violations by the close of the third business day following the date on which the employer obtains actual knowledge, as defined at &#xA7; 382.107, of: (i) On-duty alcohol use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.205; (ii) Pre-duty alcohol use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.207; (iii) Alcohol use following an accident pursuant to &#xA7; 382.209; and (iv) Controlled substance use pursuant to &#xA7; 382.213. (5) For each violation in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the employer must report the following information: (i) Driver's name, date of birth, CDL number and State of issuance; (ii) Employer name, address, and USDOT number, if applicable; (iii) Date the employer obtained actual knowledge of the violation; (iv) Witnesses to the violation, if any, including contact information; (v) Description of the violation; (vi) Evidence supporting each fact alleged in the description of the violation required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, which may include, but is not limited to, affidavits, photographs, video or audio recordings, employee statements (other than admissions pursuant to &#xA7; 382.121), correspondence, or other documentation; and (vii) A certificate of service or other evidence showing that the employer provided the employee with all information reported under paragraph (b)(4) of this section (if applicable). (6) An employer who employs himself/herself as a driver must designate a C/TPA to comply with the employer requirements in paragraph (b) of this section related to his or her own alcohol and controlled substances use. (c) C/TPAs. Any employer may designate a C/TPA to perform the employer requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. Regardless of whether it uses a C/TPA to perform its requirements, the employer retains ultimate responsibility for compliance with this section. Exception: An employer does not retain responsibility where the C/TPA is designated to comply with employer requirements as described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. (d) SAPs. (1) SAPs must report to the Clearinghouse for each driver who has completed the return-to-duty process in accordance with 49 CFR part 40, subpart O, the following information: (i) SAPs name, address, and telephone number; (ii) Driver's name, date of birth, and CDL number and State of issuance; (iii) Date of the initial substance-abuse-professional assessment; and (iv) Date the SAP determined that the driver demonstrated successful compliance as defined in 49 CFR part 40, subpart O, and was eligible for return-to-duty testing under this part. (2) SAP must report the information required by paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section by the close of the business day following the date of the initial substance abuse assessment, and must report the information required by paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section by the close of the business day following the determination that the driver has completed the return-to-duty process. (e) Reporting truthfully and accurately. Every person or entity with access must report truthfully and accurately to the Clearinghouse and is expressly prohibited from reporting information he or she knows or should know is false or inaccurate. Reporting Entities and Circumstances Reporting entity When information will be reported to clearinghouse Prospective/Current Employer of CDL Driver -An alcohol confirmation test with a concentration of 0.04 or higher. -Refusal to test (alcohol) as specified in 49 CFR 40.261. -Refusal to test (drug) not requiring a determination by the MRO as specified in 49 CFR 40.191. -Actual knowledge, as defined in 49 CFR 382.107, that a driver has used alcohol on duty, used alcohol within four hours of coming on duty, used alcohol prior to post-accident testing, or has used a controlled substance. -Negative return-to-duty test results (drug and alcohol testing, as applicable) -Completion of follow-up testing. Service Agent acting on behalf of Current Employer of CDL Driver -An alcohol confirmation test with a concentration of 0.04 or higher. -Refusal to test (alcohol) as specified in 49 CFR 40.261. -Refusal to test (drug) not requiring a determination by the MRO as specified in 49 CFR 40.191. -Actual knowledge, as defined in 49 CFR 382.107, that a driver has used alcohol on duty, used alcohol within four hours of coming on duty, used alcohol prior to post-accident testing, or has used a controlled substance. -Negative return-to-duty test results (drug and alcohol testing, as applicable) -Completion of follow-up testing. MRO -Verified positive, adulterated, or substituted drug test result. -Refusal to test (drug) requiring a determination by the MRO as specified in 49 CFR 40.191. SAP -Identification of driver and date the initial assessment was initiated. -Successful completion of treatment and/or education and the determination of eligibility for return-to-duty testing. [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 35639, July 7, 2021; 88 FR 27653, May 2, 2023] &#xA7; 382.707 Notice to drivers of entry, revision, removal, or release of information. (a) FMCSA must notify a driver when information concerning that driver has been added to, revised, or removed from the Clearinghouse. (b) FMCSA must notify a driver when information concerning that driver has been released from the Clearinghouse to an employer and specify the reason for the release. (c) Drivers will be notified by letter sent by U.S. Mail to the address on record with the State Driver Licensing Agency that issued the driver's commercial driver's license. Exception: A driver may provide the Clearinghouse with an alternative means or address for notification, including electronic mail. &#xA7; 382.709 Drivers' access to information in the Clearinghouse. A driver may review information in the Clearinghouse about himself or herself, except as otherwise restricted by law or regulation. A driver must register with the Clearinghouse before accessing his or her information. &#xA7; 382.711 Clearinghouse registration. (a) Clearinghouse registration required. Each employer and service agent must register with the Clearinghouse before accessing or reporting information in the Clearinghouse. (b) Employers. (1) Employer Clearinghouse registration must include: (i) Name, address, and telephone number; (ii) USDOT number, except if the registrant does not have a USDOT Number, it may be requested to provide other information to verify identity; and (iii) Name of the person(s) the employer authorizes to report information to or obtain information from the Clearinghouse and any additional information FMCSA needs to validate his or her identity. (2) Employers must verify the names of the person(s) authorized under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section annually. (3) Identification of the C/TPA or other service agent used to comply with the requirements of this part, if applicable, and authorization for the C/TPA to query or report information to the Clearinghouse. Employers must update any changes to this information within 10 days. (c) MROs and SAPs. Each MRO or SAP must provide the following to apply for Clearinghouse registration: (1) Name, address, telephone number, and any additional information FMCSA needs to validate the applicant's identity; (2) A certification that the applicant's access to the Clearinghouse is conditioned on his or her compliance with the applicable qualification and/or training requirements in 49 CFR part 40; and (3) Evidence of required professional credentials to verify that the applicant currently meets the applicable qualification and/or training requirements in 49 CFR part 40. (d) C/TPAs and other service agents. Each consortium/third-party administrator or other service agent must provide the following to apply for Clearinghouse registration: (1) Name, address, telephone number, and any additional information FMCSA needs to validate the applicant's identity; and (2) Name, title, and telephone number of the person(s) authorized to report information to and obtain information from the Clearinghouse. (3) Each C/TPA or other service agent must verify the names of the person(s) authorized under paragraph (d)(2) of this section annually. [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 80181, Nov. 17, 2023.] &#xA7; 382.713 Duration, cancellation, and revocation of access. (a) Term. Clearinghouse registration is valid for 5 years, unless cancelled or revoked. (b) Cancellation. FMCSA will cancel Clearinghouse registrations for anyone who has not queried or reported to the Clearinghouse for 2 years. (c) Revocation. FMCSA has the right to revoke the Clearinghouse registration of anyone who fails to comply with any of the prescribed rights and restrictions on access to the Clearinghouse, including but not limited to, submission of inaccurate or false information and misuse or misappropriation of access rights or protected information from the Clearinghouse and failure to maintain the requisite qualifications, certifications and/or training requirements as set forth in part 40 of this title. &#xA7; 382.715 Authorization to enter information into the Clearinghouse. (a) C/TPAs. No C/TPA or other service agent may enter information into the Clearinghouse on an employer's behalf unless the employer designates the C/TPA or other service agent. (b) SAPs. A driver must designate a SAP before that SAP can enter any information about the driver's return-to-duty process into the Clearinghouse. &#xA7; 382.717 Procedures for correcting certain information in the database. (a) Petitions limited to incorrectly reported information. (1) Under this section, petitioners may request only that administrative errors be corrected ( e.g., errors in data entry or a duplicate report of a positive test result); petitioners may not contest the accuracy of test results, test refusals, or other violation information, under this section. (2) Exceptions. (i) Petitioners may request that FMCSA add documentary evidence of a non-conviction to an employer's report of actual knowledge that the driver received a traffic citation for driving a commercial motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances if the citation did not result in a conviction. For the purposes of this section, conviction has the same meaning as used in 49 CFR part 383. (ii) Petitioners may request that FMCSA remove from the Clearinghouse an employer's report of actual knowledge (other than as provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section) if that report does not comply with the reporting requirements in &#xA7; 382.705(b)(5). (iii) Petitioners may request that FMCSA remove from the Clearinghouse an employer's report of a violation under 49 CFR 40.261(a)(1) or 40.191(a)(1) if that report does not comply with the reporting requirements in &#xA7; 382.705(b)(3). (b) Petition. Any driver or authorized representative of the driver may submit a petition to the FMCSA contesting the accuracy of information in the Clearinghouse. The petition must include: (1) The petitioner's name, address, telephone number, and CDL number and State of issuance; (2) Detailed description of the basis for the allegation that the information is not accurate; and (3) Evidence supporting the allegation that the information is not accurate. Failure to submit evidence is cause for dismissing the petition. (c) Submission of petition. The petitioner may submit his/her petition electronically through the Clearinghouse or in writing to: Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, ATTN: Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse Petition for Review, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590. (d) Notice of decision. Within 45 days of receiving a complete petition, FMCSA will inform the driver in writing of its decision to remove, retain, or correct the information in the database and provide the basis for the decision. (e) Request for expedited treatment. (1) A driver may request expedited treatment to correct inaccurate information in his or her Clearinghouse record under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the inaccuracy is currently preventing him or her from performing safety-sensitive functions, or to remove employer reports under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if such reports are currently preventing him or her from performing safety-sensitive functions. This request may be included in the original petition or as a separate document. (2) If FMCSA grants expedited treatment, it will subsequently inform the driver of its decision in writing within 14 days of receipt of a complete petition. (f) Administrative review. (1) A driver may request FMCSA to conduct an administrative review if he or she believes that a decision made in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of this section was in error. (2) The request must prominently state at the top of the document: &#x201C;Administrative Review of Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse Decision&#x201D; and the driver may submit his/her request electronically through the Clearinghouse or in writing to FMCSA, ATTN: Drug and Alcohol Clearinghouse Administrative Review, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590. (3) The driver's request must explain the error he or she believes FMCSA committed and provide information and/or documents to support his or her argument. (4) FMCSA will complete its administrative review no later than 30 days after receiving the driver's request for review. FMCSA's decision will constitute the final Agency action. (g) Subsequent notification to employers. When information is corrected or removed in accordance with this section, or in accordance with 49 CFR part 10, FMCSA will notify any employer that accessed the incorrect information that a correction or removal was made. [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 35640, July 7, 2021; 86 FR 55742, Oct. 7, 2021; 86 FR 57069, Oct. 14, 2021] &#xA7; 382.719 Availability and removal of information. (a) Driver information not available. Information about a driver's drug or alcohol violation will not be available to an employer conducting a query of the Clearinghouse after all of the following conditions relating to the violation are satisfied: (1) The SAP reports to the Clearinghouse the information required in &#xA7; 382.705(d); (2) The employer reports to the Clearinghouse that the driver's return-to-duty test results are negative; (3) The driver's current employer reports that the driver has successfully completed all follow-up tests as prescribed in the SAP report in accordance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 40.307, 40.309, and 40.311 of this title; and (4) Five years have passed since the date of the violation determination. (b) Driver information remains available. Information about a particular driver's drug or alcohol violation will remain available to employers conducting a query until all requirements in paragraph (a) of this section have been met. (c) Exceptions. (1) Within 2 business days of granting a request for removal pursuant to &#xA7; 382.717(a)(2)(i), FMCSA will remove information from the Clearinghouse. (2) Information about a particular driver's drug or alcohol violation may be removed in accordance with &#xA7; 382.717(a)(2)(ii) and (iii) or in accordance with 49 CFR part 10. (d) Driver information remains available. Nothing in this part shall prevent FMCSA from using information removed under this section for research, auditing, or enforcement purposes. &#xA7; 382.721 Fees. FMCSA may collect a reasonable fee from entities required to query the Clearinghouse. Exception: No driver may be required to pay a fee to access his or her own information in the Clearinghouse. &#xA7; 382.723 Unauthorized access or use prohibited. (a) Except as expressly authorized in this subpart, no person or entity may access the Clearinghouse. No person or entity may share, distribute, publish, or otherwise release any information in the Clearinghouse except as specifically authorized by law. No person may report inaccurate or misleading information to the Clearinghouse. (b) An employer's use of information received from the Clearinghouse is limited to determining whether a prohibition applies to a driver performing a safety-sensitive function with respect to a commercial motor vehicle. No employer may divulge or permit any other person or entity to divulge any information from the Clearinghouse to any person or entity not directly involved in determining whether a prohibition applies to a driver performing a safety-sensitive function with respect to a commercial motor vehicle. (c) Violations of this section are subject to civil and criminal penalties in accordance with applicable law, including those set forth at &#xA7; 382.507. (d) Nothing in this part shall prohibit FMCSA from accessing information about individual drivers in the Clearinghouse for research, auditing, or enforcement purposes. &#xA7; 382.725 Access by State licensing authorities. (a)(1) Before November 18, 2024, in order to determine whether a driver is qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle, the chief commercial driver's licensing official of a State may obtain the driver's record from the Clearinghouse if the driver has applied for a commercial driver's license or commercial learner's permit from that State. (2) On or after November 18, 2024, in order to determine whether a driver is qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle, the chief commercial driver's licensing official of a State must obtain the driver's record from the Clearinghouse if the driver has applied for a commercial driver's license or commercial learner's permit from that State. (b) By applying for a commercial driver's license or a commercial learner's permit, a driver is deemed to have consented to the release of information from the Clearinghouse in accordance with this section. (c) The chief commercial driver's licensing official's use of information received from the Clearinghouse is limited to determining an individual's qualifications to operate a commercial motor vehicle. No chief commercial driver's licensing official may divulge or permit any other person or entity to divulge any information from the Clearinghouse to any person or entity not directly involved in determining an individual's qualifications to operate a commercial motor vehicle. (d) A chief commercial driver's licensing official who does not take appropriate safeguards to protect the privacy and confidentiality of information obtained under this section is subject to revocation of his or her right of access under this section. [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 68057, Dec. 13, 2019; 86 FR 35640, July 7, 2021; 86 FR 55742, Oct. 7, 2021] &#xA7; 382.727 Penalties. An employer, employee, MRO, or service agent who violates any provision of this subpart shall be subject to the civil and/or criminal penalty provisions of 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(2)(C).