PART 1305-DISCLOSURE AND NOTICE OF CHANGE OF RATES AND OTHER SERVICE TERMS FOR PIPELINE COMMON CARRIAGE Authority: 49 U.S.C. 1321(a) and 15701(e). Source: 61 FR 35141, July 5, 1996, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 1305.1 Scope; definitions. (a) The provisions of this part address the requirements imposed on pipeline carriers by 49 U.S.C. 15701(b) and 15701(c). Such requirements apply to pipeline carriers only with respect to the transportation of commodities other than water, gas, or oil. (b) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the provisions of this part apply to any transportation or service provided by a pipeline carrier subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board under 49 U.S.C. 15301. (c) The provisions of this part do not apply to any transportation or service provided by a pipeline carrier to the extent that such transportation or service is exempted from rate notice and disclosure requirements pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 15302. (d) For the purposes of this part, service terms means all classifications, rules, and practices that affect the rates, charges, or level of service for pipeline transportation. &#xA7; 1305.2 Disclosure requirement for existing rates. (a) A pipeline carrier must disclose to any person, on request, the specific rate(s) requested (or the basis for calculating the specific rate(s)), as well as all charges and service terms that may be applicable to transportation covered by those rate(s). (b) The information provided by a pipeline carrier under this section must be provided immediately. (It is expected that the response will be sent within hours, or at the latest by the next business day, in most situations.) Such information may be provided either in writing or in electronic form, as agreed to by the parties. If the parties cannot agree, such information is to be provided in electronic form where both parties have the requisite capabilities; otherwise, it is to be provided in writing. (c) A pipeline carrier may, at its option, require that all requests submitted under this section be in writing or electronic form, or the carrier may permit oral requests. &#xA7; 1305.3 Response to request for establishment of a new rate. Where a shipper or a prospective shipper, or a person acting on behalf of a shipper or a prospective shipper, requests that the carrier establish a rate in the absence of an existing rate for particular transportation, the carrier must promptly establish and provide to the requester a rate and applicable service terms. The information may be provided either in writing or in electronic form, as agreed to by the parties. If the parties cannot agree, such information is to be provided in electronic form where both parties have the requisite capabilities; otherwise, it is to be provided in writing. The response should be provided as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 10 business days from receipt of the request. If a carrier determines that additional information is required from the requester before a rate or term can be established, the carrier must so notify the requester as soon as possible, but no later than 10 business days after receipt of the request. Once the additional information is received, the carrier must set the rate and related service terms, and relay them to the requester, as soon as possible, but no later than 10 business days. The time period for response set forth in this section will not apply when the parties agree to a different time period. A pipeline carrier may, at its option, require that requests submitted under this section be in writing or electronic form, or the carrier may permit oral requests. &#xA7; 1305.4 Notice requirement. (a) A pipeline carrier may not increase any rates or charges, or change any service terms (except for changes that are equivalent to rate reductions) unless 20 days have expired after written or electronic notice has been provided to all persons who, within the previous 12 months: (1) Have requested, under &#xA7; 1305.2 or &#xA7; 1305.3, the affected rates or service terms; or (2) Have made arrangements with the carrier for a shipment that would be subject to the increased rates or changed service terms. (b) The notice required by this section may be provided either in writing or in electronic form, as agreed to by the parties. If the parties cannot agree, the information is to be provided in electronic form where both parties have the requisite capabilities; otherwise, it is to be provided in writing. (c) For purposes of this section, a mailed notice is deemed &#x201C;provided&#x201D; on the date such notice is postmarked. (d) The notice required by this section must clearly identify the increase in rates or charges or the change in service terms.