PART 207-RAILROAD POLICE OFFICERS Authority: 45 U.S.C. 446; 49 CFR 1.49(ff). Source: 59 FR 6587, Feb. 11, 1994, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 207.1 Application. This part applies to all railroads as defined in 49 U.S.C. 20103. [81 FR 88132, Dec. 7, 2016] &#xA7; 207.2 Definitions. As used in this part: (a) Railroad police officer means a peace officer who is commissioned in his or her state of legal residence or state of primary employment and directly employed by or contracted by a railroad to enforce state laws for the protection of railroad property, personnel, passengers, and/or cargo. (b) Commissioned means that a state official has certified or otherwise designated a railroad employee as qualified under the licensing requirements of that state to act as a railroad police officer in that state. (c) Property means rights-of-way, easements, appurtenant property, equipment, cargo, facilities, and buildings and other structures owned, leased, operated, maintained, or transported by a railroad. [59 FR 6587, Feb. 11, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 88132, Dec. 7, 2016] &#xA7; 207.3 Designation and commissioning. (a) A railroad may designate employees to be commissioned by a state authority as railroad police officers to serve in the states in which the railroad owns property. (b) Except as provided by &#xA7; 207.6, the designated railroad police officer shall be commissioned by the railroad police officer's state of legal residence or the railroad police officer's state of primary employment. [59 FR 6587, Feb. 11, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 88132, Dec. 7, 2016] &#xA7; 207.4 Notice to State officials. (a) After the designated railroad police officer is commissioned by a state or states, the railroad shall send, by certified mail, written notice to appropriate officials of every other state in which the railroad police officer shall protect the railroad's property, personnel, passengers, and cargo. The notice of commission shall contain the following information: (1) The name of the railroad police officer; (2) The badge number, identification number, rank, code, or other identifying information assigned to the railroad police officer; (3) The date of commission; (4) The state or states where the railroad police officer is commissioned; (5) The date the railroad police officer received training or retraining regarding the laws of such state or states; (6) The name of the railroad official who designated the employee as a railroad police officer; and (7) Color photographs of the types of badges, identification cards, and other identifying materials the railroad uses to identify its railroad police officers. (b) The railroad shall keep copies of all such notices at a central location. (c) The authority set forth in &#xA7; 207.5 shall be effective upon receipt by such state(s) of written notice conforming to the requirements of this section. &#xA7; 207.5 Authority in States where officer not commissioned. (a) A railroad police officer who is designated by a railroad and commissioned under the laws of any state is authorized to enforce the laws (as specified in paragraph (b) of this section) of any state in which the railroad owns property and to which the railroad has provided notice in accordance with &#xA7; 207.4. (b) Under the authority of paragraph (a) of this section, a railroad police officer may enforce only relevant laws for the protection of- (1) The railroad's employees, passengers, or patrons; (2) The railroad's property or property entrusted to the railroad for transportation purposes; (3) The intrastate, interstate, or foreign movement of cargo in the railroad's possession or in possession of another railroad or non-rail carrier while on the railroad property; and (4) The railroad movement of personnel, equipment, and materials vital to the national defense. (c) The authority exercised under this part by an officer for whom the railroad has provided notice in accordance with &#xA7; 207.4 shall be the same as that of a railroad police officer commissioned under the laws of that state. (d) The railroad police officer's law enforcement powers shall apply only on railroad property, except that an officer may pursue off railroad property a person suspected of violating the law on railroad property, and an officer may engage off railroad property in law enforcement activities, including, without limitation, investigation and arrest, if permissible under state law. &#xA7; 207.6 Transfers. (a) General. If a railroad police officer certified or commissioned as a police officer under the laws of a state or jurisdiction transfers primary employment or residence from the certifying or commissioning state to another state or jurisdiction, then the railroad police officer must apply to be certified or commissioned as a police officer under the laws of the state of new primary employment or residence not later than one (1) year after the date of transfer. (b) Interim period. During the period beginning on the date of transfer and ending one year after the date of transfer, a railroad police officer certified or commissioned as a police officer under the laws of a state may enforce the laws of the new state or jurisdiction in which the railroad police officer resides, to the same extent as provided in &#xA7; 207.5(a). [81 FR 88132, Dec. 7, 2016] &#xA7; 207.7 Training. (a) A state may consider an individual to have met that state's basic police officer certification or commissioning requirements for qualification as a railroad police officer under this section if that individual: (1) Has successfully completed a program at a state-recognized police training academy in another state or at a Federal law enforcement training center; and (2) Is certified or commissioned as a police officer by the other state. (b) Nothing in this section shall be construed as superseding or affecting any state training requirements related to criminal law, civil procedure, motor vehicle code, any other state law, or state-mandated comparative or annual in-service training academy or Federal law enforcement training center. [81 FR 88132, Dec. 7, 2016]