PART 802-RULES IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974 Authority: Privacy Act of 1974, Pub. L. 93-579, 88 Stat. 1896 (5 U.S.C. 552a); Independent Safety Board Act of 1974, Pub. L. 93-633, 88 Stat. 2166 (49 U.S.C. 1901 et seq. ); and Freedom of Information Act, Pub. L. 93-502, November 21, 1974, amending 5 U.S.C. 552. Source: 41 FR 22358, June 3, 1976, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-Applicability and Policy &#xA7; 802.1 Purpose and scope. The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a with respect to the availability to an individual of records of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) maintained on individuals. NTSB policy encompasses the safeguarding of individual privacy from any misuse of Federal records and the provision of access to individuals to NTSB records concerning them, except where such access is in conflict with the Freedom of Information Act, or other statute. [41 FR 39758, Sept. 16, 1976] &#xA7; 802.2 Definitions. In this part: Board means the five Members of the National Transportation Safety Board, or a quorum thereof; Individual means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence; National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) means the agency set up under the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974; Record means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained under the control of the NTSB pursuant to Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business, including, but not limited to, education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains a name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to an individual, such as a finger or voice imprint or photograph; Routine use means the use of such record for a purpose compatible with the purpose for which it was collected, including, but not limited to, referral to law enforcement agencies of violations of the law and for discovery purposes ordered by a court referral to potential employers, and for security clearance; Statistical record means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and which is not used wholly or partially in any determination concerning an identifiable individual; System Manager means the agency official who is responsible for the policies and practices of his particular system or systems of record, as specified in the NTSB notices of systems or records; and System of records means a group of any records under the control of the NTSB from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, whether presently in existence or set up in the future. Subpart B-Initial Procedures and Requirements &#xA7; 802.5 Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a record system. The NTSB may not disclose any record to any person or other agency, except pursuant to a written request by, or with the prior written consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, provided the record under the control of the NTSB is maintained in a system of records from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other particular assigned to such individual. Written consent is not required if the disclosure is: (a) To officers or employees of the NTSB who require the information in the official performance of their duties; (b) Required under 5 U.S.C. 552, Freedom of Information Act; (c) For a routine use compatible with the purpose for which it was collected; (d) To the Bureau of the Census for uses pursuant to title 13, U.S.C.; (e) To a recipient who has provided the NTSB with advance adequate assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record and that it is to be transferred in a form not individually identifiable; or (f) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. &#xA7; 802.6 Types of requests and specification of records. (a) Types of requests. An individual may make the following request respecting records about himself maintained by NTSB in any system of records subject to the Act: (1) Whether information concerning himself is contained in any system of records. (2) Access to a record concerning himself. Such request may include a request to review the record and/or obtain a copy of all or any portion thereof. (3) Correction or amendment of a record concerning himself. (4) Accounting of disclosure to any other person or Government agency of any record concerning himself contained in any system of records controlled by NTSB, except: (i) Disclosures made pursuant to the FOIA; (ii) disclosures made within the NTSB; (iii) disclosures made to another Government agency or instrumentality for an authorized law enforcement activity pursuant to subsection (b)(7) of the Act; and (iv) disclosures expressly exempted by NTSB from the requirements of subsection (c)(3) of the Act, pursuant to subsection (k) thereof. (b) Specification of records. All requests for access to records must reasonably describe the system of records and the individual's record within the system of records in sufficient detail to permit identification of the requested record. Specific information regarding the system name, the individual's full name, and other information helpful in identifying the record or records shall be included. Requests for correction or amendment of records shall, in addition, specify the particular record involved, state the nature of the correction or amendment sought, and furnish justification for the correction or amendment. (c) Inadequate identification of record. Requests which do not contain information sufficient to identify the record requested will be returned promptly to the requester, with a notice indicating what information is lacking. Individuals making requests in person will be informed of any deficiency in the specification of the records at the time the request is made. Individuals making requests in writing will be notified of any such deficiency when their request is acknowledged. &#xA7; 802.7 Requests: How, where, and when presented; verification of identity of individuals making requests; accompanying persons; and procedures for acknowledgment of requests. (a) Requests-general. Requests may be made in person or in writing. Assistance regarding requests or other matters relating to the Act may be obtained by writing to the Director, Bureau of Administration, National Transportation Safety Board, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20594. The Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, on request, will aid an individual in preparing an amendment to the record or to an appeal following denial of a request to amend the record, pursuant to subsection (f)(4) of the Act. (b) Written requests. Written requests shall be made to the Director, Bureau of Administration at the address given above, and shall clearly state on the envelope and on the request itself, &#x201C;Privacy Act Request,&#x201D; &#x201C;Privacy Act Statement of Disagreement,&#x201D; &#x201C;Privacy Act Disclosure Accounting Request,&#x201D; &#x201C;Appeal from Privacy Act Adverse Determination,&#x201D; or &#x201C;Privacy Act Correction Request,&#x201D; as the case may be. Actual receipt by the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, shall constitute receipt. (c) Requests made in person. Requests may be made in person during official working hours of the NTSB at the office where the record is located, as listed in the &#x201C;Notice of Systems of Records&#x201D; for the system in which the record is contained. (d) Verification of identity of requester. (1) For written requests, the requester's identity must be verified before the release of any record, unless exempted under the FOIA. This may be accomplished by adequate proof of identity in the form of a driver's license or other acceptable item of the same type. (2) For requests in person, the requester's identity may be established by a single document bearing a photograph (such as a passport or identification badge) or by two items of identification containing name, address, and signature (such as a driver's license or credit card). (3) Where a request is made for reproduced records which are to be delivered by mail, the request must include a notarized statement verifying the requester's identity. (e) Inability to provide requisite documentation of identity. A requester who cannot provide the necessary documentation of identity may provide a notarized statement, swearing or affirming his identity and the fact that he is aware of the penalties for false statement imposed pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, and subsection (i)(3) of the Act. Where requested, the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, will assist the requester in formulating the necessary document. (f) Accompanying persons. A requester may wish to have a person of his choice accompany him to review the requested record. Prior to the release of the record, the NTSB will require the requester to furnish the Director, Bureau of Administration or his designee, with a written statement authorizing disclosure of the record in the accompanying person's presence. (g) Acknowledgment of requests. Written requests to verify the existence of, to obtain access to, or to correct or amend records about the requester maintained by NTSB in any system of records subject to the Act, shall be acknowledged in writing by the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, within 3 working days after the date of actual receipt of the request by the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee. The acknowledgment shall advise the requester of the need for any additional information to process the request. Wherever practicable, the acknowledgment shall notify the individual whether his request has been granted or denied. When a request is made in person, every effort will be made to determine immediately whether the request will be granted. If such decision cannot be made, the request will be processed in the same manner as a written request. Records will be made available for immediate inspection whenever possible. [41 FR 22358, June 3, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 43154, Sept. 30, 1976] Subpart C-Initial Determinations &#xA7; 802.8 Disclosure of requested information. (a) The System Manager may initially determine that the request be granted. If so, the individual making the request shall be notified orally, or in writing, and the notice shall include: (1) A brief description of the information to be made available; (2) The time and place where the record may be inspected, or alternatively, the procedure for delivery by mail to the requesting party; (3) The estimated cost for furnishing copies of the record; (4) The requirements for verification of identity; (5) The requirements for authorizing discussion of the record in the presence of an accompanying person; and (6) Any additional requirements needed to grant access to a specific system of records or record. (b) Within 10 working days after actual receipt of the request by the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, in appropriate cases, the requester will be informed: (1) That the request does not reasonably describe the system of records or record sought to permit its identification, and shall set forth the additional information needed to clarify the request; or (2) That the system of records identified does not include a record retrievable by the requester's name or other identifying particulars. (c) The System Manager shall advise the requester within 10 working days after actual receipt of the request by the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, that the request for access has been denied, and the reason for the denial, or that the determination has been made to grant the request, either in whole or in part, in which case the relevant information will be provided. [41 FR 22358, June 3, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 43154, Sept. 30, 1976] Subpart D-Correction or Amending the Record &#xA7; 802.10 Request for correction or amendment to record. All requests for correcting or amending records shall be made in writing to the Director, Bureau of Administration, National Transportation Safety Board, 800 Independence Avenue., SW., Washington, DC 20594, and shall be deemed received upon actual receipt by the Director, Bureau of Administration. The request shall clearly be marked on the envelope and in the letter with the legend that it is a &#x201C;Privacy Act Correction Request.&#x201D; The request must reasonably set forth the portion of the record which the individual contends is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. [41 FR 22358, June 3, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 43154, Sept. 30, 1976] &#xA7; 802.11 Agency review of requests for correction or amendment of record. Within 10 working days after actual receipt of the request by the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, to correct or amend the record, the System Manager shall either make the correction in whole or in part, or inform the individual of the refusal to correct or amend the record as requested, and shall present the reasons for any denials. [41 FR 22358, June 3, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 43154, Sept. 30, 1976] &#xA7; 802.12 Initial adverse agency determination on correction or amendment. If the System Manager determines that the record should not be corrected or amended in whole or in part, he will forthwith make such finding in writing, after consulting with the General Counsel, or his designee. The requester shall be notified of the refusal to correct or amend the record. The notification shall be in writing, signed by the System Manager, and shall include- (a) The reason for the denial; (b) The name and title or position of each person responsible for the denial of the request; (c) The appeal procedures for the individual for a review of the denial; and (d) Notice that the denial from the System Manager is appealable within 30 days from the receipt thereof by the requester to the Board. The System Manager is allotted 10 working days (or within such extended period as is provided in the section concerning &#x201C;unusual circumstances&#x201D; infra ) to respond to the request for review. If the requester does not receive an answer within such time, the delay shall constitute a denial of the request and shall permit the requester immediately to appeal to the Board, or to a district court. Subpart E-Review of Initial Adverse Determination &#xA7; 802.14 Review procedure and judicial review. (a) A requester may appeal from any adverse determination within 30 days after actual receipt of a denial from the System Manager. The appeal must be in writing addressed to the Chairman, National Transportation Safety Board, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20594, and shall contain a statement on the envelope and in the appeal: &#x201C;Appeal from Privacy Act Adverse Determination.&#x201D; (b) The Board shall make a determination with respect to the appeal within 30 working days after the actual receipt of the appeal by the Chairman, except as provided for in &#x201C;unusual circumstances&#x201D; infra. (c)(1) Review of denial of access. If the appeal upholds the denial of access to records, the Board shall: Notify the requester in writing, explaining the Board's determination; state that the denial is a final agency action and that judicial review is available in a district court of the United States in the district where the requester resides or has his principal place of business, or where the agency records are located, or in the District of Columbia; and request a filing with the Board of a concise statement enumerating the reasons for the requester's disagreement with the denial, pursuant to subsection (g) of the Act. (2) Review of denial of correction or amendment. If the appeal upholds the denial in whole or in part for correction or amendment of the record, the same notification and judicial review privileges described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall apply. (d) If the denial is reversed on appeal, the Board shall notify the requester in writing of the reversal. The notice shall include a brief statement outlining those portions of the individual's record which were not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete, and corrections of the record which were made, and shall provide the individual with a courtesy copy of the corrected record. (e) Copies of all appeals and written determinations will be furnished by the System Manager to the Board. (f) In unusual circumstances, time limits may be extended by not more than 10 working days by written notice to the individual making the request. The notice shall include the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be forthcoming. &#x201C;Unusual circumstances&#x201D; as used in this section shall include circumstances where a search and collection of the requested records from field offices or other establishments are required, cases where a voluminous amount of data is involved, and cases where consultations are required with other agencies or with others having a substantial interest in the determination of the request. (g) Statements of Disagreement. (1) Written Statements of Disagreement may be furnished by the individual within 30 working days of the date of actual receipt of the final adverse determination of the Board. They shall be addressed to the Director, Bureau of Administration, National Transportation Safety Board, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20594, and shall be clearly marked, both on the statement and on the envelope, &#x201C;Privacy Act Statement of Disagreement.&#x201D; (2) The Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, shall be responsible for ensuring that: (i) The Statement of Disagreement is included in the system of records in which the disputed item of information is maintained; and (ii) The original record is marked to indicate the information disputed, the existence of the Statement of Disagreement, and its location within the relevant system of records. (3) The Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, may, if he deems it appropriate, prepare a concise Statement of Explanation indicating why the requested amendments or corrections were not made. Such Statement of Explanation shall be included in the system of records in the same manner as the Statement of Disagreement. Courtesy copies of the NTSB Statement of Explanation and the notation of dispute, as marked on the original record, shall be furnished to the individual who requested correction or amendment of the record. (h) Notices of correction and/or amendment, or dispute. After a record has been corrected or a Statement of Disagreement has been filed, the Director, Bureau of Administration, or his designee, shall within 30 working days thereof, advise all previous recipients of the affected record as to the correction or the filing of the Statement of Disagreement. The identity of such recipients shall be determined pursuant to an accounting of disclosures required by the Act or any other accounting previously made. Any disclosure of disputed information occurring after a Statement of Disagreement has been filed shall clearly identify the specific information disputed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the Statement of Disagreement and a copy of any NTSB Statement of Explanation. (i) Disclosure to others of records concerning individuals. Neither the Board nor other NTSB personnel shall disclose any record which is contained in a system of records maintained by NTSB, by any means of communication, including oral communication, to any person, or to another Government agency, except pursuant to a written request by, or with the prior written consent, of the individual to whom the record pertains, unless disclosure of the record is: (1) To the Board and NTSB personnel who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties; (2) Required under the FOIA; (3) For a routine use published in the Federal Register ; (4) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey, or related activity pursuant to the provisions of title 13 of the U.S.C.; (5) To a recipient who has provided NTSB with adequate advance written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record and that the record is transferred in a form that is not identifiable with respect to individuals; 1 1 The advance written statement of assurance shall state the purpose for which the record is requested and certify that it will be used only for statistical purposes. Prior to release under this paragraph, the record shall be stripped of all personally identifiable information and reviewed to ensure that the identity of any individual cannot reasonably be determined by combining two or more statistical records. (6) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government, or to the Administrator of the General Services Administration, or his designee, for evaluation to determine whether the record has such value; (7) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to NTSB specifying the particular portion of the record desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought; 2 2 A record may be disclosed to a law enforcement agency at the initiative of NTSB if criminal conduct is suspected, provided that such disclosure has been established as a routine use by publication in the Federal Register, and the instance of misconduct is directly related to the purpose for which the record is maintained. (8) To any person upon a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual; (9) To either House of Congress or, to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, to any committee, or subcommittee thereof, or to any joint committee of the Congress, or to any subcommittee of such joint committee; (10) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office; or (11) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. (j) Notices of subpoenas. When records concerning an individual are subpoenaed or otherwise disclosed pursuant to court order, the NTSB officer or employee served with the subpoena shall be responsible for assuring that the individual is notified of the disclosure within 5 days after such subpoena or other order becomes a matter of public record. The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the individual and shall contain the following information: (1) The date the subpoena is returnable; (2) the court in which it is returnable; (3) the name and number of the case or proceeding; and (4) the nature of the information sought. (k) Notices of emergency disclosures. When information concerning an individual has been disclosed to any person under compelling circumstances affecting health or safety, the NTSB officer or employee who made or authorized the disclosure shall notify the individual at his last known address within 5 days of the disclosure. The notice shall contain the following information: (1) The nature of the information disclosed; (2) the person or agency to whom the information was disclosed; (3) the date of the disclosure; and (4) the compelling circumstances justifying the disclosure. [41 FR 22358, June 3, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 43154, Sept. 30, 1976] Subpart F-Fees &#xA7; 802.15 Fees. No fees shall be charged for providing the first copy of a record, or any portion thereof, to individuals to whom the record pertains. The fee schedule for other records is the same as that appearing in the appendix to part 801 of this chapter, implementing the FOIA, as amended from time to time, except that the cost of any search for and review of the record shall not be included in any fee under this Act, pursuant to subsection (f)(5) of the Act. Subpart G-Penalties &#xA7; 802.18 Penalties. (a) An individual may bring a civil action against the NTSB to correct or amend the record, or where there is a refusal to comply with an individual request or failure to maintain any record with accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness, so as to guarantee fairness, or failure to comply with any other provision of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The court may order the correction or amendment. It may assess against the United States reasonable attorney fees and other costs, or may enjoin the NTSB from withholding the records and order the production to the complainant, and it may assess attorney fees and costs. (b) Where it is determined that the action was willful or intentional with respect to 5 U.S.C. 552(g)(1) (c) or (d), the United States shall be liable for the actual damages sustained, but in no case less than the sum of $1,000 and the costs of the action with attorney fees. (c) Criminal penalties may be imposed against an officer or employee of the NTSB who fully discloses material which he knows is prohibited from disclosure, or who willfully maintains a system of records without meeting the notice requirements, or who knowingly and willfully requests or obtains any record concerning an individual from an agency under false pretenses. These offenses shall be misdemeanors with a fine not to exceed $5,000. Subpart H-Specific Exemptions &#xA7; 802.20 Security records. Pursuant to, and limited by, 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), the NTSB's system of records, which contains the Security Records of NTSB employees, prospective employees, and potential contractors, shall be exempt from disclosure of the material and the NTSB's handling thereof under subsections (d), (e)(1) and (e)(4) (H) and (I) of 5 U.S.C. 552a.