PART 1548-INDIRECT AIR CARRIER SECURITY Authority: 49 U.S.C. 114, 5103, 40113, 44901-44905, 44913-44914, 44916-44917, 44932, 44935-44936, 46105. Source: 67 FR 8382, Feb. 22, 2002, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 1548.1 Applicability of this part. This part prescribes aviation security rules governing each indirect air carrier engaged indirectly in the air transportation of property on aircraft. [67 FR 8382, Feb. 22, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 33255, June 8, 2006] &#xA7; 1548.3 &#xA7; 1548.3 [Reserved] &#xA7; 1548.5 Adoption and implementation of the security program. (a) Security program required. No indirect air carrier may offer cargo to an aircraft operator operating under a full program or a full all-cargo program specified in part 1544 of this subchapter, or to a foreign air carrier operating under a program under &#xA7; 1546.101(a), (b), or (e) of this subchapter, unless that indirect air carrier has and carries out an approved security program under this part. Each indirect air carrier that does not currently hold a security program under part 1548, and that offers cargo to an aircraft operator operating under a full all-cargo program or a comparable operation by a foreign air carrier must comply with this section not later than December 1, 2006. (b) General requirements. (1) The security program must provide for the security of the aircraft, as well as that of persons and property traveling in air transportation against acts of criminal violence and air piracy and against the introduction into the aircraft of any unauthorized person, and any unauthorized explosive, incendiary, and other destructive substance or item as provided in the indirect air carrier's security program. This requirement applies- (i) From the time the indirect air carrier accepts the cargo to the time it transfers the cargo to an entity that is not an employee or agent of the indirect air carrier; (ii) While the cargo is stored, en route, or otherwise being handled by an employee or agent of the indirect air carrier; and (iii) Regardless of whether the indirect air carrier has or ever had physical possession of the cargo. (2) The indirect air carrier must ensure that its employees and agents carry out the requirements of this chapter and the indirect air carrier's security program. (c) Content. Each security program under this part must- (1) Be designed to prevent or deter the introduction of any unauthorized person, and any unauthorized explosive, incendiary, and other destructive substance or item onto an aircraft. (2) Include the procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of &#xA7;&#xA7; 1548.9 and 1548.17 regarding the acceptance and offering of cargo. (3) Include the procedures and syllabi used to accomplish the training required under &#xA7; 1548.11 of persons who accept, handle, transport, or deliver cargo on behalf of the indirect air carrier. (d) Availability. Each indirect air carrier having a security program must: (1) Maintain an original of the security program at its corporate office. (2) Have accessible a complete copy, or the pertinent portions of its security program, or appropriate implementing instructions, at each office where cargo is accepted. An electronic version is adequate. (3) Make a copy of the security program available for inspection upon the request of TSA. (4) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of information contained in its security program to persons with a need to know, as described in part 1520 of this chapter. (5) Refer requests for such information by other persons to TSA. [67 FR 8382, Feb. 22, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 30513, May 26, 2006; 71 FR 31964, June 2, 2006] &#xA7; 1548.7 Approval, amendment, annual renewal, and withdrawal of approval of the security program. (a) Original Application -(1) Application. The applicant must apply for a security program in a form and a manner prescribed by TSA not less than 90 calendar days before the applicant intends to begin operations. The application must be in writing and include: (i) The business name; other names, including doing business as; state of incorporation, if applicable; and tax identification number. (ii) The applicant names, addresses, and dates of birth of each proprietor, general partner, officer, director, and owner identified under &#xA7; 1548.16. (iii) A signed statement from each person listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section stating whether he or she has been a proprietor, general partner, officer, director, or owner of an IAC that had its security program withdrawn by TSA. (iv) Copies of government-issued identification of persons listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. (v) Addresses of all business locations in the United States. (vi) A statement declaring whether the business is a &#x201C;'small business&#x201D;' pursuant to section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). (vii) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each employee and agent of the indirect air carrier, who is subject to training under &#xA7; 1548.11, will have successfully completed the training outlined in its security program before performing security-related duties. (viii) Other information requested by TSA concerning Security Threat Assessments. (ix) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each employee and agent will successfully complete a Security Threat Assessment under &#xA7; 1548.15 before authorizing the individual to have unescorted access to cargo. (2) Approval. TSA will approve the security program by providing the indirect air carrier with the Indirect Air Carrier Standard Security Program and any Security Directive upon determining that- (i) The indirect air carrier has met the requirements of this part, its security program, and any applicable Security Directive; (ii) The approval of its security program is not contrary to the interests of security and the public interest; and (iii) The indirect air carrier has not held a security program that was withdrawn within the previous year, unless otherwise authorized by TSA. (3) Commencement of operations. The indirect air carrier may operate under a security program when it meets all requirements, including but not limited to successful completion of training and Security Threat Assessments by relevant personnel. (4) Duration of security program. The security program will remain effective until the end of the calendar month 3 years after the month it was approved, or until the program has been surrendered or withdrawn, whichever is earlier. (5) Requirement to report changes in information. Each indirect air carrier with an approved security program under this part must notify TSA, in a form and manner approved by TSA, of any changes to the information submitted during its initial or renewal application. (i) This notification must be submitted to the designated official not later than 30 days after the date the change occurred. (ii) Changes included in the requirement of this paragraph include, but are not limited to, changes in the indirect air carrier's contact information, owners, business addresses and locations, and form of business entity. (b) Renewal Application. Upon timely submittal of an application for renewal, and unless and until TSA denies the application, the indirect air carrier's approved security program remains in effect. (1) Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each indirect air carrier that has a security program under this part must timely submit to TSA, at least 30 calendar days before the 36th month after the initial approval of its security program, an application for renewal of its security program in a form and a manner approved by TSA. (2) The application for renewal must be in writing and include a signed statement that the indirect air carrier has reviewed and ensures the continuing accuracy of the contents of its initial application for a security program, subsequent renewal applications, or other submissions to TSA confirming a change of information and noting the date such applications and submissions were sent to TSA, including the following certification: [Name of indirect air carrier] (hereinafter &#x201C;the IAC&#x201D;) has adopted and is currently carrying out a security program in accordance with the Transportation Security Regulations as originally approved on [Insert date of TSA initial approval]. In accordance with TSA regulations, the IAC has notified TSA of any new or changed information required for the IAC's initial security program. If new or changed information is being submitted to TSA as part of this application for reapproval, that information is stated in this filing. The IAC understands that intentional falsification of certification to an air carrier or to TSA may be subject to both civil and criminal penalties under 49 CFR 1540 and 1548 and 18 U.S.C. 1001. Failure to notify TSA of any new or changed information required for initial approval of the IAC's security program in a timely fashion and in a form acceptable to TSA may result in withdrawal by TSA of approval of the IAC's security program. (3) TSA will renew approval of the security program if TSA determines that- (i) The indirect air carrier has met the requirements of this chapter, its security program, and any Security Directive; and (ii) The renewal of its security program is not contrary to the interests of security and the public interest. (4) If TSA determines that the indirect air carrier meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, it will renew the indirect air carrier's security program. The security program will remain effective until the end of the calendar month 3 years after the month it was renewed, or until the program has been surrendered or withdrawn, whichever is earlier. (c) Amendment requested by an indirect air carrier or applicant. An indirect air carrier or applicant may file a request for an amendment to its security program with the TSA designated official at least 45 calendar days before the date it proposes for the amendment to become effective, unless the designated official allows a shorter period. Any indirect air carrier may submit a group proposal for an amendment that is on behalf of it and other indirect air carriers that co-sign the proposal. (1) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a proposed amendment, the designated official, in writing, either approves or denies the request to amend. (2) An amendment to an indirect air carrier security program may be approved, if the designated official determines that safety and the public interest will allow it, and if the proposed amendment provides the level of security required under this part. (3) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a denial of the proposed amendment, the indirect air carrier may petition TSA to reconsider the denial. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official. (4) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either approves the request to amend or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the TSA for reconsideration. TSA will dispose of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to approve the amendment or by affirming the denial. (d) Amendment by TSA. TSA may amend a security program in the interest of safety and the public interest, as follows: (1) TSA notifies the indirect air carrier, in writing, of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 30 calendar days within which the indirect air carrier may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment. (2) After considering all relevant material, the designated official notifies the indirect air carrier of any amendment adopted or rescinds the notice of amendment. If the amendment is adopted, it becomes effective not less than 30 calendar days after the indirect air carrier receives the notice of amendment, unless the indirect air carrier disagrees with the proposed amendment and petitions the TSA to reconsider, no later than 15 calendar days before the effective date of the amendment. The indirect air carrier must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment. (3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends or withdraws the notice of amendment, or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to TSA for reconsideration. TSA disposes of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt, either by directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the notice of amendment, or by affirming the notice of amendment. (e) Emergency Amendments. (1) If TSA finds that there is an emergency requiring immediate action, with respect to aviation security that makes procedures in this section contrary to the public interest, the designated official may issue an emergency amendment, without the prior notice and comment procedures described in paragraph (d) of this section. (2) The emergency amendment is effective without stay on the date the indirect air carrier receives notification. TSA will incorporate in the notification a brief statement of the reasons and findings for the emergency amendment to be adopted. (3) The indirect air carrier may file a petition for reconsideration with the TSA no later than 15 calendar days after TSA issued the emergency amendment. The indirect air carrier must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official; however, the filing does not stay the effective date of the emergency amendment. (f) Withdrawal of approval of a security program. Section 1540.301 includes procedures for withdrawal of approval of a security program. (g) Service of documents for withdrawal of approval of security program proceedings. Service may be accomplished by personal delivery, certified mail, or express courier. Documents served on an indirect air carrier will be served at the indirect air carrier's official place of business as designated in its application for approval or its security program. Documents served on TSA must be served to the address noted in the notice of withdrawal of approval or withdrawal of approval, whichever is applicable. (1) Certificate of service. An individual may attach a certificate of service to a document tendered for filing. A certificate of service must consist of a statement, dated and signed by the person filing the document, that the document was personally delivered, served by certified mail on a specific date, or served by express courier on a specific date. (2) Date of service. The date of service will be- (i) The date of personal delivery; (ii) If served by certified mail, the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark, if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark; or (iii) If served by express courier, the service date shown on the certificate of service, or by other evidence if there is no certificate of service. (h) Extension of time. TSA may grant an extension of time of the limits set forth in this section for good cause shown. An indirect air carrier's request for an extension of time must be in writing and be received by TSA at least 2 days before the due date to be extended. TSA may grant itself an extension of time for good cause. [71 FR 30513, May 26, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 47705, Sept. 16, 2009; 89 FR 8557, Feb. 8, 2024] &#xA7; 1548.9 Acceptance of cargo. (a) Preventing or deterring the carriage of any explosive or incendiary. Each indirect air carrier must use the facilities, equipment, and procedures described in its security program to prevent or deter the carriage onboard an aircraft of any unauthorized person, and any unauthorized explosive, incendiary, and other destructive substance or item, as provided in the indirect air carrier's security program. (b) Refusal to transport. Each indirect air carrier must refuse to offer for transport on an aircraft any cargo, if the shipper does not consent to a search or inspection of that cargo in accordance with this part, or parts 1544 or 1546 of this chapter. [71 FR 30515, May 26, 2006] &#xA7; 1548.11 Training and knowledge for individuals with security-related duties. (a) No indirect air carrier may use an employee or agent to perform any security-related duties to meet the requirements of its security program, unless that individual has received training, as specified in its security program, including his or her personal responsibilities in &#xA7; 1540.105 of this chapter. (b) Each indirect air carrier must ensure that each of its authorized employees or agents who accept, handle, transport, or deliver cargo have knowledge of the- (1) Applicable provisions of this part; (2) Applicable Security Directives and Information Circulars; (3) The approved airport security program(s) applicable to their location(s); and (4) The aircraft operator's or indirect air carrier's security program, to the extent necessary in order to perform their duties. (c) Each indirect air carrier must ensure that each of its authorized employees or agents under paragraph (b) of this section successfully completes recurrent training at least annually on their individual responsibilities in- (1) Section 1540.105 of this chapter; (2) The applicable provisions of this part; (3) Applicable Security Directives and Information Circulars; (4) The approved airport security program(s) applicable to their location(s); and (5) The aircraft operator's or indirect air carrier's security program, to the extent that such individuals need to know in order to perform their duties. (d) Operators must comply with the requirements of this section not later than November 22, 2006, for direct employees and not later than June 15, 2007, for agents. [71 FR 30515, May 26, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 62549, Oct. 25, 2006] &#xA7; 1548.13 Security coordinators. Each indirect air carrier must designate and use an Indirect Air Carrier Security Coordinator (IACSC). The IACSC and alternates must be appointed at the corporate level and must serve as the indirect air carrier's primary contact for security-related activities and communications with TSA, as set forth in the security program. Either the IACSC or an alternate IACSC must be available on a 24-hour basis. [71 FR 30515, May 26, 2006] &#xA7; 1548.15 Access to cargo: Security threat assessments for individuals having unescorted access to cargo. (a) Before an indirect air carrier authorizes and before an individual performs a function described in paragraph (b) of this section- (1) Each individual must successfully complete a security threat assessment or comparable security threat assessment described in part 1540 subpart C of this chapter; and (2) Each indirect air carrier must complete the requirements in part 1540 subpart C. (b) The security threat assessment required in paragraph (a) of this section applies to the following: (1) Each individual who has unescorted access to cargo and access to information that such cargo will be transported on a passenger aircraft; or who has unescorted access to cargo screened for transport on a passenger aircraft; or who performs certain functions related to the transportation, dispatch or security of cargo for transport on a passenger aircraft or all-cargo aircraft, as specified in the indirect air carrier's security program; from the time- (i) Cargo to be transported on an all-cargo aircraft operated by an aircraft operator with a full all-cargo program under &#xA7; 1544.101(h) of this chapter, or by a foreign air carrier under &#xA7; 1546.101(e) of this chapter, reaches an indirect air carrier facility where the indirect air carrier consolidates or holds the cargo, until the indirect air carrier transfers the cargo to an aircraft operator or foreign air carrier; or (ii) Cargo to be transported on a passenger aircraft operated by an aircraft operator with a full program under &#xA7; 1544.101(a) or by a foreign air carrier under &#xA7; 1546.101(a) or (b) of this chapter, is accepted by the indirect air carrier, until the indirect air carrier transfers the cargo to an aircraft operator or foreign air carrier. (2) Each individual the indirect air carrier authorizes to screen cargo or to supervise the screening of cargo under &#xA7; 1548.21. [74 FR 47705, Sept. 16, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 51868, Aug. 18, 2011] &#xA7; 1548.16 Security threat assessments for each proprietor, general partner, officer, director, and certain owners of the entity. (a) Before an indirect air carrier permits a proprietor, general partner, officer, director, or owner of the entity to perform those functions- (1) The proprietor, general partner, officer, director, or owner of the entity must successfully complete a security threat assessment or comparable security threat assessment described in part 1540 subpart C of this chapter; and (2) Each indirect air carrier must complete the requirements in 49 CFR part 1540, subpart C. (b) For purposes of this section, owner means- (1) A person who directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities or other voting interests of an IAC or applicant to be an IAC; or (2) A person who directly or indirectly controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors (or individuals exercising similar functions) of an IAC, or applicant to be an IAC. (c) For purposes of this definition of owner - (1) Members of the same family must be considered to be one person. (i) Same family means parents, spouses, children, siblings, uncles, aunts, grandparents, grandchildren, first cousins, stepchildren, stepsiblings, and parents-in-law, and spouses of any of the foregoing. (ii) Each member of the same family, who has an ownership interest in an IAC, or an applicant to be an IAC, must be identified if the family is an owner as a result of aggregating the ownership interests of the members of the family. (iii) In determining the ownership of interests of the same family, any voting interest of any family member must be taken into account. (2) Voting securities or other voting interests means securities or other interests that entitle the holder to vote for or select directors (or individuals exercising similar functions). (d) Each indirect air carrier, or applicant to be an indirect air carrier, must ensure that each proprietor, general partner, officer, director and owner of the entity has successfully completed a Security Threat Assessment under part 1540, subpart C, of this chapter not later than a date to be specified by TSA in a future rule in the Federal Register. [71 FR 30516, May 26, 2006; 71 FR 31965, June 2, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 62550, Oct. 25, 2006; 72 FR 13026, Mar. 20, 2007; 74 FR 47706, Sept. 16, 2009] &#xA7; 1548.17 Known shipper program. This section applies to cargo that an indirect air carrier offers to an aircraft operator operating under a full program under &#xA7; 1544.101(a) of this chapter, or to a foreign air carrier operating under &#xA7; 1546.101(a) or (b) of this chapter. (a) For cargo to be loaded on aircraft in the United States, each indirect air carrier must have and carry out a known shipper program in accordance with its security program. The program must- (1) Determine the shipper's validity and integrity as provided in its security program; (2) Provide that the indirect air carrier will separate known shipper cargo from unknown shipper cargo. (b) When required by TSA, each indirect air carrier must submit to TSA, in a form and manner acceptable to TSA- (1) Information identified in its security program regarding an applicant to be a known shipper or a known shipper; and (2) Corrections and updates of this information upon learning of a change to the information specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. [71 FR 30516, May 26, 2006] &#xA7; 1548.19 Security Directives and Information Circulars. (a) TSA may issue an Information Circular to notify indirect air carriers of security concerns. (b) When TSA determines that additional security measures are necessary to respond to a threat assessment, or to a specific threat against civil aviation, TSA issues a Security Directive setting forth mandatory measures. (1) Each indirect air carrier that is required to have an approved indirect air carrier security program must comply with each Security Directive that TSA issues to it, within the time prescribed in the Security Directive for compliance. (2) Each indirect air carrier that receives a Security Directive must comply with the following: (i) Within the time prescribed in the Security Directive, acknowledge in writing receipt of the Security Directive to TSA. (ii) Within the time prescribed in the Security Directive, specify the method by which the measures in the Security Directive have been implemented (or will be implemented, if the Security Directive is not yet effective). (3) In the event that the indirect air carrier is unable to implement the measures in the Security Directive, the indirect air carrier must submit proposed alternative measures and the basis for submitting the alternative measures to TSA for approval. (i) The indirect air carrier must submit the proposed alternative measures within the time prescribed in the Security Directive. (ii) The indirect air carrier must implement any alternative measures approved by TSA. (4) Each indirect air carrier that receives a Security Directive may comment on it by submitting data, views, or arguments in writing to TSA. (i) TSA may amend the Security Directive based on comments received. (ii) Submission of a comment does not delay the effective date of the Security Directive. (5) Each indirect air carrier that receives a Security Directive or Information Circular, and each person who receives information from a Security Directive or Information Circular, must: (i) Restrict the availability of the Security Directive or Information Circular, and information contained in either document, to those persons with a need-to-know. (ii) Refuse to release the Security Directive or Information Circular, and information contained in either document, to persons other than those with a need-to-know without the prior written consent of TSA. [71 FR 30516, May 26, 2006] &#xA7; 1548.21 Screening of cargo. An IAC may only screen cargo for transport on a passenger aircraft under &#xA7;&#xA7; 1544.205 and 1546.205 if the IAC is a certified cargo screening facility as provided in part 1549. [74 FR 47706, Sept. 16, 2009]