PART 30-DENIAL OF PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS TO SUPPLIERS OF GOODS AND SERVICES OF COUNTRIES THAT DENY PROCUREMENT MARKET ACCESS TO U.S. CONTRACTORS Authority: 49 U.S.C. 322(a); Containing Resolution on the Fiscal Year 1988 Budget 109(a), Pub. L. 100-202; Airport and Airways Safety and Capacity Expansion Act of 1987, 115, Pub. L. 100-223. Source: 53 FR 19916, June 1, 1988, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 30.1 Purpose. The rules in this part implement section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution on the Fiscal Year 1988 Budget, Public Law No. 100-202 (signed December 22, 1987) [the Continuing Resolution], and section 115 of the Airport and Airways Safety and Capacity Expansion Act of 1987, Public Law No. 100-223 (signed December 30, 1987) [the Airport Safety Act]. These rules are intended to give uniform implementation to these statutes throughout DOT procurement and grant programs. &#xA7; 30.3 Applicability. (a) The restrictions imposed by section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution extend to all DOT agencies as well as all recipients of DOT funds. The restrictions apply to all projects for which funds are obligated or contracts or subcontracts are awarded during fiscal year 1988, including projects and contracts under all DOT financial assistance programs. The prohibition applies to public buildings and public works projects everywhere in the United States or any territory or possession of the United States. U.S. overseas bases, installations, and embassies are not subject to this part. (b) The restrictions imposed by section 115 of the Airport Safety Act extend to all projects for which funds are made available by that Act, whether or not the contracts are awarded during fiscal year 1988. The restrictions apply to all contracts entered into under grants authorized by the Airport Safety Act. (c) This part applies to projects covered by section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution, section 115 of the Airport Safety Act, or both. Whether one or the other statute or both apply, the effect on the project shall be the same, subject to paragraph (e) of this section. (d) In addition to construction, alteration, and repair contracts, the restrictions of this part cover all architect, engineering, and other services related to the preparation and performance of construction, alteration, and repair of public projects and public works. (e) The restrictions of this part also apply to all products used in the construction, alteration, or repair of public projects and public works; Provided, however, That (1) The restrictions of this part do not apply to construction equipment or vehicles that do not become part of a delivered structure, product, or project and (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the restrictions of section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution do not apply to vehicles to be used by the project, including, but not limited to, buses, trucks, automobiles, rail rolling stock, and aircraft. &#xA7; 30.5 Effective dates. The provisions of section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution apply to contracts (or new subcontracts under existing contracts, whether or not subject to the restriction) entered into after December 22, 1987, its date of enactment, and before October 1, 1988. The provisions of section 115 of the Airport Safety Act apply to contracts funded by the Act and entered into after December 30, 1987, its date of enactment; the restrictions remain effective so long as money provided by the Airport Safety Act is used. Accordingly, any contracts or subcontracts subject to the restrictions of this part entered into with contractors or subcontractors owned or controlled by citizens of subject countries, as defined by &#xA7;&#xA7; 30.7 and 30.9 of this part, since December 22, 1987 shall be canceled at no cost to the Government, subject to the waiver provisions of &#xA7; 30.17 of this part. All public works or public buildings contracts entered into after December 22, 1987, shall include, or be modified to include, a provision prohibiting subcontracting with citizens of subject countries, as defined by &#xA7;&#xA7; 30.7 and 30.9 of this part. &#xA7; 30.7 Definitions. (a) Funds appropriated for FY 1988 by this resolution or any other law, as used in this part with reference to section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution, means all appropriated and trust funds available to DOT, its modal administration, or their grantees for expenditure or obligation in fiscal year 1988, regardless of the fiscal year in which the funds were appropriated. (b) Funds made available by this Act, as used in this part with reference to section 115(a) of the Airport Safety Act, means all funds, including trust funds, made available to DOT, its modal administrations, or their grantees by that Act, whether or not the contracts to be funded are awarded during fiscal year 1988. (c) Contractor and subcontractor means any person, other than a supplier of products, performing any architectural, engineering, or other service directly related to the preparation for or performance of the construction, alteration, or repair of any public building or public work in the United States or any territory or possession of the United States. (d) Contractor or subcontractor of a foreign country means any contractor or subcontractor that is a citizen or national of a foreign country, or is controlled directly or indirectly by one or more citizens or nationals of a foreign country. (e) Service of a foreign country means any service provided by a person that is a citizen or national of a foreign country, or is controlled by one or more citizens or nationals of a foreign country. (f) Product of a foreign country means construction materials, i.e., articles, materials, and supplies brought to the construction site for incorporation into the public works project. A product is considered to have been produced in a foreign country if more than fifty percent of the total cost of the product is allocable to production or manufacture in the foreign country. (g) Foreign country means a country included in the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. &#xA7; 30.9 Citizenship: Direct or indirect control. A contractor, subcontractor, or person providing a service shall be considered to be a citizen or national of a foreign country, or controlled directly or indirectly by citizens or nationals of a foreign country, within the meaning of this part. (a) If 50 percent or more of the contractor or subcontractor is owned by one or more citizens or nationals of the foreign country; (b) If the title to 50 percent or more of the stock of the contractor or subcontractor is held subject to trust or fiduciary obligation in favor of one or more citizens or nationals of the foreign country; (c) If 50 percent or more of the voting power in the contractor or subcontractor is vested in or exercisable on behalf of one or more citizens or nationals of the foreign country; (d) In the case of a partnership, if any general partner is a citizen or national of the foreign country; (e) In the case of a corporation, if the number of its directors necessary to constitute a quorum are citizens of the foreign country or the corporation is organized under the laws of the foreign country or any subdivision, territory, or possession thereof; or (f) In the case of a contractor or subcontractor that is a joint venture, if any participant meets any of the criteria in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. &#xA7; 30.11 Use of solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (a) Unless the President or the Secretary waives the restrictions imposed by section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution in accordance with &#xA7; 30.17 of this part, the contracting officer shall insert a clause similar to the clause at &#xA7; 30.15, Restrictions on Federal Public Works Projects, in contractions and solicitations, if- (1) The contract is awarded on or after December 22, 1987, and before October 1, 1988; and (2) The contract obligates funds appropriated for use in FY 1988 by the Continuing Resolution or any other law; and (3) The contract is for the acquisition of construction, alteration and repair, architectural, engineering, or other services directly related to the preparation for, or performance of, construction, alteration, and repair for Federal public works projects inside the United States, U.S. territories, or U.S. possessions. (b) Unless the Secretary waives the restrictions imposed by section 115 of the Airport Safety Act in accordance with &#xA7; 30.17 of this part, the contracting officer shall insert a clause similar to the clause at &#xA7; 30.15, Restrictions on Federal Public Works Projects, in contracts and solicitations relating to any project for which funds, including grant funds, are made available by that Act, whether or not the contract is awarded during fiscal year 1988. (c) Any contract already awarded that should have contained the clause prescribed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, but did not, shall be modified to include the clause. In the event that the contracting officer is unable to modify such contract, the contract shall be canceled at no cost to the Government, unless a waiver is granted in accordance with &#xA7; 30.17 of this part. (d) Contracting officers shall insert a provision similar to the solicitation provision at &#xA7; 30.13 of this part, Restrictions on Public Works Projects-Certification, in solicitations containing the clause at &#xA7; 30.15 of this part, Restrictions on Federal Public Works Projects. (e) Any solicitation issued before December 22, 1987, that will result in the award of a contract covered by paragraph (a) of this section after December 22, 1987, and before October 1, 1988, and that should have contained a provision similar to that &#xA7; 30.13 of this part, but did not, shall be amended to include the provision if the contract has not yet been awarded. &#xA7; 30.13 Restrictions on Federal public works projects: Certification. As prescribed in &#xA7; 30.11(c) of this part, the contracting officer shall insert the following provision in solicitations containing the clause at &#xA7; 30.15, Restrictions on Federal Public Works Projects: Restrictions on Federal Public Works Projects-Certification (a) Definitions. The definitions pertaining to this provision are those that are set forth in 49 CFR 30.7-30.9. (b) Certification. By signing this solicitation, the Offeror certifies that with respect to this solicitation, and any resultant contract, the Offeror- (1) Is [ ] is not [ ] a contractor of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminated against U.S. firms published by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (U.S.T.R.); (2) Has [ ] has not [ ] entered into any contract or subcontract with a subcontractor of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R.; and (3) Has [ ] has not [ ] entered into any subcontract for any product to be used on the Federal public works project that is produced in a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. (c) Applicability of 18 U.S.C. 1001. This certification in this solicitation provision concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States and the making of a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may render the maker subject to prosecution under Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001. (d) Notice. The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. (e) Restrictions on contract award. No contract will be awarded to an offeror (1) who is owned or controlled by one or more citizens or nationals of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. or (2) whose subcontractors are owned or controlled by one or more citizens or nationals of a foreign country on such U.S.T.R. list or (3) who incorporates in the public works project any product of a foreign country on such U.S.T.R. list; unless a waiver to these restrictions is granted by the President of the United States or the Secretary of Transportation. (Notice of the granting of a waiver will be published in the Federal Register. ) (f) System. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by paragraph (b) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. (g) Subcontracts. The Offeror agrees that, if awarded a contract resulting from this solicitation, it will incorporate this solicitation provision, including this paragraph (g), in each solicitation issued under such contract. (End of provision) &#xA7; 30.15 Restrictions on Federal public works projects. The contracting officer shall insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts as prescribed at &#xA7; 30.11(a) through (b) of this part: Restrictions on Federal Public Works Projects (a) Definitions. The definitions pertaining to this clause are those that are set forth in 49 CFR 30.7-30.9 (b) General. This clause implements the procurement provisions contained in the Continuing Resolution on the Fiscal Year 1988 Budget, Public Law No. 100-202, and the Airport and Airway Safety and Capacity Expansion Act of 1987, Public Law No. 100-223. (c) Restrictions. The Contractor shall not knowingly enter into any subcontract under this contract: (1) With a subcontractor of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the United States Trade Representative (U.S.T.R.); or (2) for the supply of any product for use on the Federal Public works project under this contract that is produced or manufactured in a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. (d) Certification. The Contractor may rely upon the certification of a prospective subcontractor that it is not a subcontractor of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminates against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. and that products supplied by such subcontractor for use on the Federal public works project under this contract are not products of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R., unless the contractor has knowledge that the certification is erroneous. (e) Erroneous certification. The certification in paragraph (b) of the provision entitled &#x201C;Restriction on Federal Public Works Projects-Certification,&#x201D; is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making the award. If it is later determined that the Contractor knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may cancel this contract for default at no cost to the Government. (f) Cancellation. Unless the restrictions of this clause are waived as provided in paragraph (e) of the provision entitled &#x201C;Restriction on Federal Public Works Projects-Certification,&#x201D; if the Contractor knowingly enters into a subcontract with a subcontractor that is a subcontractor of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. or that supplies any product for use on the Federal public works project under this contract of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R., the Contracting Officer may cancel this contract for default, at no cost to the Government. (g) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall incorporate this clause, without modification, including this paragraph (g) in all solicitations and subcontracts under this contract: Certification Regarding Restrictions on Federal Public Works Projects-Subcontractors (1) The Offeror/Contractor, by submission of an offer and/or execution of a contract certifies that the Offeror/Contractor is (i) not an Offeror/Contractor owned or controlled by one or more citizens or nationals of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the United States Trade Representative (U.S.T.R.) or (2) not supplying any product for use on the Federal public works project that is produced or manufactured in a foreign country included on the list of foreign countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. THIS CERTIFICATION CONCERNS A MATTER WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF AN AGENCY OF THE UNITED STATES AND THE MAKING OF A FALSE FICTITIOUS, OR FRAUDULENT CERTIFICATION MAY RENDER THE MAKER SUBJECT TO PROSECUTION UNDER TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 1001 (2) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contractor if, at any time, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. (3) The Contractor shall not knowingly enter into any subcontract under this contract: (i) with a subcontractor of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R.; or (ii) for the supply of any product for use on the Federal public works project under this contract that is produced or manufactured in a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. The contractor may rely upon the certification in paragraph (g)(1) of this clause unless it has knowledge that the certification is erroneous. (4) Unless the restrictions of this clause have been waived under the contract for the Federal public works project, if a contractor knowingly enters into a subcontract with a subcontractor that is a subcontractor of a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R. or that supplies any product for use on the Federal public works project under this contract that is produced or manufactured in a foreign country included on the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R., the Government Contracting Officer may direct, through higher-tier contractors, cancellation of this contract at no cost to the Government. (5) Definitions. The definitions pertaining to this clause are those that are set forth in 49 CFR 30.7-30.9. (6) The certification in paragraph (g)(1) of this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making the award. If it is later determined that the Contractor knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Government Contracting Officer may direct, through higher-tier Contractors, cancellation of this subcontract at no cost to the Government. (7) The Contractor agrees to insert this clause, without modification, including this paragraph, in all solicitations and subcontracts under this clause. (End of clause) &#xA7; 30.17 Waivers. (a) The Secretary may waive the restrictions imposed by section 115 of the Airport Safety Act on the use of a product or service in a project if the Secretary determines that: (1) Application of the restriction to such product, service, or project would not be in the public interest; (2) Products or services of the same class or kind are not produced or offered in the United States, or in any foreign country that is not listed by the U.S.T.R. in sufficient and reasonable available quantities and of a satisfactory quality; or (3) Exclusion of such product or service from the project would increase the cost of the overall project contract by more than 20 percent. (b) The President or the Secretary may waive the restrictions imposed by section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution with respect to an individual contract if the President or the Secretary determines that such action is necessary in the public interest, on a contract-by-contract basis. The Secretary may apply the factors listed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section in determining whether a waiver is in the public interest. (c) The authority of the President or the Secretary to issue waivers may not be delegated. The Department shall publish notice of any waiver granted pursuant to this part by the President or the Secretary in the Federal Register within ten days. The notice shall describe in detail the contract involved, the specific reasons for granting the waiver, and how the waiver meets the criteria of this section. &#xA7; 30.19 Buy American Act. The restrictions of this part are in addition to any other restrictions contained in Federal law, including the Buy American Act, 41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, and Buy American provisions in legislation governing DOT provisions. Normal evaluation methods for implementing the provisions of the Buy American Act in contracts for the construction, alteration, or repair of public buildings or public works will be applied after determining the offeror's eligible for award on the basis of application of the provisions in this part.