PART 579-REPORTING OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS ABOUT POTENTIAL DEFECTS Authority: 49 U.S.C. 30102-103, 30112, 30117-121, 30166-167; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.95 and 49 CFR 501.8. Source: 67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 579.1 Scope. This part sets forth requirements for reporting information and submitting documents that may help identify defects related to motor vehicle safety and noncompliances with Federal motor vehicle safety standards, including reports of foreign safety recalls and other safety-related campaigns conducted outside the United States under 49 U.S.C. 30166(l), early warning information under 49 U.S.C. 30166(m), and copies of communications about defects and noncompliances under 49 U.S.C. 30166(f). &#xA7; 579.2 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to enhance motor vehicle safety by specifying information and documents that manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment must provide to NHTSA with respect to possible safety-related defects and noncompliances in their products, including the reporting of safety recalls and other safety campaigns that the manufacturer conducts outside the United States. [67 FR 63310, Oct. 11, 2002] &#xA7; 579.3 Application. (a) This part applies to all manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment with respect to all motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment that have been offered for sale, sold, or leased in the United States by the manufacturer, including any parent corporation, any subsidiary or affiliate of the manufacturer, or any subsidiary or affiliate of any parent corporation, and with respect to all motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment that have been offered for sale, sold, or leased in a foreign country by the manufacturer, including any parent corporation, any subsidiary or affiliate of the manufacturer, or any subsidiary or affiliate of any parent corporation, and are identical or substantially similar to any motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment that have been offered for sale, sold, or leased in the United States. (b) In the case of any report required under subpart B of this part, compliance by the fabricating manufacturer, the importer, the brand name owner, or a parent or subsidiary of such fabricator, importer, or brand name owner of the motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment that is identical or substantially similar to that covered by the foreign recall or other safety campaign, shall be considered compliance by all persons. (c) In the case of any report required under subpart C of this part, compliance by the fabricating manufacturer, the importer, the brand name owner, or a parent or United States subsidiary of such fabricator, importer, or brand name owner of the motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment, shall be considered compliance by all persons. (d) With regard to any information required to be reported under subpart C of this part, an entity covered under paragraph (a) of this section need only review information and systems where information responsive to subpart C of this part is kept in the usual course of business. [43 FR 38833, Aug. 31, 1978, as amended at 67 FR 63310, Oct. 11, 2002] &#xA7; 579.4 Terminology. (a) Statutory terms. The terms dealer, defect, distributor, motor vehicle, motor vehicle equipment, and State are used as defined in 49 U.S.C. 30102. (b) Regulatory terms. The term Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is used as defined in &#xA7; 565.3(o) of this chapter. The terms bus, Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR), motorcycle, multipurpose passenger vehicle, passenger car, trailer, and truck are used as defined in &#xA7; 571.3(b) of this chapter. The term Booster seat is used as defined in S4 of &#xA7; 571.213 of this chapter. The term Tire Identification Number (TIN) is the &#x201C;tire identification number&#x201D; described in &#xA7; 574.5 of this chapter. The term Limited production tire is used as defined in &#xA7; 575.104(c)(2) of this chapter. (c) Other terms. The following terms apply to this part: Administrator means the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), or the Administrator's delegate. Affiliate means, in the context of an affiliate of or person affiliated with a specified person, a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediates, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified. The term person usually is a corporation. Air bag means an air bag or other automatic occupant restraint device (other than a &#x201C;seat belt&#x201D; as defined in this subpart) installed in a motor vehicle that restrains an occupant in the event of a vehicle crash without requiring any action on the part of the occupant to obtain the benefit of the restraint. This term includes inflatable restraints (front and side air bags), knee bolsters, and any other automatic restraining device that may be developed that does not include a restraining belt or harness. This term also includes all air bag-related components, such as the inflator assembly, air bag module, control module, crash sensors and all hardware and software associated with the air bag. This term includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Automatic brake controls means systems and devices for automatic control of the braking system, including but not limited to, brake-assist components (vacuum booster, hydraulic modulator, etc.), antilock braking systems, traction control systems, and enhanced braking systems. The term includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Backover prevention system means a system that has a visual image of the area directly behind a vehicle that is provided in a single location to the vehicle operator and by means of indirect vision. Base means the detachable bottom portion of a child restraint system that may remain in the vehicle to provide a base for securing the system to a seat in a motor vehicle. Bead means all the materials in a tire below the sidewalls in the rim contact area, including bead rubber components, the bead bundle and rubber coating if present, the body ply and its turn-up including the rubber coating, rubber, fabric, or metallic reinforcing materials, and the inner-liner rubber under the bead area. Brand name owner means a person that markets a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment under its own trade name whether or not it is the fabricator or importer of the vehicle or equipment. Buckle and restraint harness means the components of a child restraint system that are intended to restrain a child seated in such a system, including the belt webbing, buckles, buckle release mechanism, belt adjusters, belt positioning devices, and shields. Child restraint system means any system that meets, or is offered for sale in the United States as meeting, any definition in S4 of &#xA7; 571.213 of this chapter, or that is offered for sale as a child restraint system in a foreign country. Claim means a written request or written demand for relief, including money or other compensation, assumption of expenditures, or equitable relief, related to a motor vehicle crash, accident, the failure of a component or system of a vehicle or an item of motor vehicle equipment, or a fire originating in or from a motor vehicle or a substance that leaked from a motor vehicle. Claim includes, but is not limited to, a demand in the absence of a lawsuit, a complaint initiating a lawsuit, an assertion or notice of litigation, a settlement, covenant not to sue or release of liability in the absence of a written demand, and a subrogation request. A claim exists regardless of any denial or refusal to pay it, and regardless of whether it has been settled or resolved in the manufacturer's favor. The existence of a claim may not be conditioned on the receipt of anything beyond the document(s) stating a claim. Claim does not include demands related to asbestos exposure, to emissions of volatile organic compounds from vehicle interiors, or to end-of-life disposal of vehicles, parts or components of vehicles, equipment, or parts or components of equipment. Common green tires means tires that are produced to the same internal specifications but that have, or may have, different external characteristics and may be sold under different tire line names. Compressed natural gas (CNG) means a system that uses compressed natural gas to propel a motor vehicle. Compression ignition fuel (CIF) means a system that uses diesel or any diesel-based fuels to propel a motor vehicle. This includes biodiesel. Consumer complaint means a communication of any kind made by a consumer (or other person) to or with a manufacturer addressed to the company, an officer thereof or an entity thereof that handles consumer matters, a manufacturer website that receives consumer complaints, a manufacturer electronic mail system that receives such information at the corporate level, or that are otherwise received by a unit within the manufacturer that receives consumer inquiries or complaints, including telephonic complaints, expressing dissatisfaction with a product, or relating the unsatisfactory performance of a product, or any actual or potential defect in a product, or any event that allegedly was caused by any actual or potential defect in a product, but not including a claim of any kind or a notice involving a fatality or injury. Control (including the terms controlling, controlled by, and under common control with) means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. Customer satisfaction campaign, consumer advisory, recall, or other activity involving the repair or replacement of motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment means any communication by a manufacturer to, or made available to, more than one dealer, distributor, lessor, lessee, other manufacturer, or owner, whether in writing or by electronic means, relating to repair, replacement, or modification of a vehicle, component of a vehicle, item of equipment, or a component thereof, the manner in which a vehicle or child restraint system is to be maintained or operated (excluding promotional and marketing materials, customer satisfaction surveys, and operating instructions or owner's manuals that accompany the vehicle or child restraint system at the time of first sale); or advice or direction to a dealer or distributor to cease the delivery or sale of specified models of vehicles or equipment. Dealer field report means a field report from a dealer or authorized service facility of a manufacturer of motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment. Electric battery power (EBP) means a system that uses only batteries to power an electric motor to propel a motor vehicle. Electrical system means any electrical or electronic component of a motor vehicle that is not included in one of the other reporting categories enumerated in subpart C of this part, and specifically includes the battery, battery cables, alternator, fuses, and main body wiring harnesses of the motor vehicle and the ignition system, including the ignition switch and starter motor. The term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Electronic stability control system for light vehicles is used as defined in S4. of &#xA7; 571.126 of this chapter. Electronic stability control system for buses, emergency vehicles, and medium/heavy vehicles means a system that has all the following attributes: (i) Augments vehicle directional stability by applying and adjusting the vehicle brake torques individually at each wheel position on at least one front and at least one rear axle of the vehicle to induce correcting yaw moment to limit vehicle oversteer and to limit vehicle understeer; (ii) Enhances rollover stability by applying and adjusting the vehicle brake torques individually at each wheel position on at least one front and at least one rear axle of the vehicle to reduce lateral acceleration of a vehicle; (iii) Is computer-controlled with the computer using a closed-loop algorithm to induce correcting yaw moment and enhance rollover stability; (iv) Has a means to determine the vehicle's lateral acceleration; (v) Has a means to determine the vehicle's yaw rate and to estimate its side slip or side slip derivative with respect to time; (vi) Has a means to estimate vehicle mass or, if applicable, combination vehicle mass; (vii) Has a means to monitor driver steering input; (viii) Has a means to modify engine torque, as necessary, to assist the driver in maintaining control of the vehicle and/or combination vehicle; and (ix) Can provide brake pressure to automatically apply on a truck tractor and modulate the brake torques of a towed semi-trailer. Engine and engine cooling means the component (e.g., motor) of a motor vehicle providing motive power to the vehicle, and includes the exhaust system (including the exhaust emission system), the engine control unit, engine lubrication system, and the underhood cooling system for that engine. This term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Equipment comprises original and replacement equipment: (i) Original equipment means an item of motor vehicle equipment (other than a tire) that was installed in or on a motor vehicle at the time of its delivery to the first purchaser if the item of equipment was installed on or in the motor vehicle at the time of its delivery to a dealer or distributor for distribution; or the item of equipment was installed by the dealer or distributor with the express authorization of the motor vehicle manufacturer. (ii) Replacement equipment means motor vehicle equipment other than original equipment, and tires. Exterior lighting mean all the exterior lamps (including any interior-mounted center highmounted stop lamp if mounted in the interior of a vehicle), lenses, reflectors, and associated equipment of a motor vehicle, including all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Field report means a communication in writing, including communications in electronic form, from an employee or representative of a manufacturer of motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment, a dealer or authorized service facility of such manufacturer, or an entity known to the manufacturer as owning or operating a fleet, to the manufacturer regarding the failure, malfunction, lack of durability, or other performance problem of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment, or any part thereof, produced for sale by that manufacturer and transported beyond the direct control of the manufacturer, regardless of whether verified or assessed to be lacking in merit, but does not include any document covered by the attorney-client privilege or the work product exclusion. Fire means combustion or burning of material in or from a vehicle as evidenced by flame. The term also includes, but is not limited to, thermal events and fire-related phenomena such as smoke and melt, but does not include events and phenomena associated with a normally functioning vehicle such as combustion of fuel within an engine or exhaust from an engine. Fleet means more than ten motor vehicles of the same make, model, and model year. Foreign country means a country other than the United States. Foreign government means the central government of a foreign country as well as any political subdivision of that country. Forward collision avoidance system means (i) A system that: (A) Has an algorithm or software to determine distance and relative speed of an object or another vehicle directly in the forward lane of travel; and (B) Provides an audible, visible, and/or haptic warning to the driver of a potential collision with an object in the vehicle's forward travel lane. (ii) The system may also include a feature that: (A) Pre-charges the brakes prior to, or immediately after, a warning is issued to the driver; (B) Closes all windows, retracts the seat belts, and/or moves forward any memory seats in order to protect the vehicle's occupants during or immediately after a warning is issued; or (C) Applies any type of braking assist or input during or immediately after a warning is issued. Foundation brake system means all components of the service braking system of a motor vehicle intended for the transfer of braking application force from the operator to the wheels of a vehicle, including components such as the brake pedal, master cylinder, fluid lines and hoses, brake calipers, wheel cylinders, brake discs, brake drums, brake pads, brake shoes, and other related equipment installed in a motor vehicle in order to comply with FMVSS Nos. 105, 121, 122, or 135 (except equipment relating specifically to the parking brake). The term includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Fuel and/or propulsion system type means the variety of fuel and/or propulsion systems used in a motor vehicle, as follows: compressed natural gas (CNG); compression ignition fuel (CIF); electric battery power (EBP); fuel-cell power (FCP); hybrid electric vehicle (HEV); hydrogen combustion power (HCP); plug-in hybrid (PHV); spark ignition fuel (SIF); other (OTH), and unknown (UNK). Fuel-cell power (FCP) means a system that uses fuel cells to generate electricity to power an electric motor to propel a motor vehicle. Fuel system means all components of a motor vehicle used to receive and store fuel, and to transfer fuel between the vehicle's fuel storage, engine, or fuel emission systems. This term includes, but is not limited to, the fuel tank and filler cap, neck, and pipe, along with associated piping, hoses, and clamps, the fuel pump, fuel lines, connectors from the fuel tank to the engine, the fuel injection/carburetion system (including fuel injector rails and injectors), and the fuel vapor recovery system(s), canister(s), and vent lines. The term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Good will means the repair or replacement of a motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment, including labor, paid for by the manufacturer, at least in part, when the repair or replacement is not covered under warranty, or under a safety recall reported to NHTSA under part 573 of this chapter. Handle means any element of a child restraint system that is designed to facilitate carrying the restraint outside a motor vehicle, other than an element of the seat shell. Hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) means a system that uses a combination of an electric motor and internal combustion engine to propel a motor vehicle but is not capable of recharging its batteries by plugging in to an external electric current. Hydrogen combustion power (HCP) means a system that uses hydrogen to propel a vehicle through means other than a fuel cell. Incomplete light vehicle means an incomplete vehicle as defined in &#xA7; 568.3 of this chapter which, when completed, will be a light vehicle. Integrated child restraint system means a factory-installed built-in child restraint system as defined in S4 of &#xA7; 571.213 of this chapter and includes any factory-authorized built-in child restraint system. Lane departure prevention system means (i) A system that: (A) Has an algorithm or software to determine the vehicle's position relative to the lane markers and the vehicle's projected direction; and (B) Provides an audible, visible, and/or haptic warning to the driver of unintended departure from a travel lane. (ii) The system may also include a feature that: (A) Applies the vehicle's stability control system to assist the driver to maintain lane position during or immediately after the warning is issued; (B) Applies any type of steering input to assist the driver to maintain lane position during or immediately after the warning is issued; or (C) Applies any type of braking pressure or input to assist the driver to maintain lane position during or immediately after the warning is issued. Latch means a latching, locking, or linking system of a motor vehicle and all its components fitted to a vehicle's exterior doors, rear hatch, liftgate, tailgate, trunk, or hood. This term also includes, but is not limited to, devices for the remote operation of a latching device such as remote release cables (and associated components), electric release devices, or wireless control release devices, and includes all components covered in FMVSS No. 206. This term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Light vehicle means any motor vehicle, except a bus, motorcycle, or trailer, with a GVWR of 10,000 lbs or less. Make means a name that a manufacturer applies to a group of vehicles. Manufacturer means a person manufacturing or assembling motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment, or importing motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for resale. This term includes any parent corporation, any subsidiary or affiliate, and any subsidiary or affiliate of a parent corporation of such a person. Medium-heavy vehicle means any motor vehicle, except a trailer, with a GVWR greater than 10,000 lbs. Minimal specificity means: (i) For a vehicle, the make, model, and model year, (ii) For a child restraint system, the manufacturer and the model (either the model name or model number), (iii) For a tire, the manufacturer, tire line, and tire size, and (iv) For other motor vehicle equipment, the manufacturer and, if there is a model or family of models identified on the item of equipment, the model name or model number. Model means a name that a manufacturer of motor vehicles applies to a family of vehicles within a make which have a degree of commonality in construction, such as body, chassis or cab type. For equipment other than child restraint systems, it means the name that the manufacturer uses to designate it. For child restraint systems, it means the name that the manufacturer uses to identify child restraint systems with the same seat shell, buckle, base (if so equipped) and restraint system. Model year means the year that a manufacturer uses to designate a discrete model of vehicle, irrespective of the calendar year in which the vehicle was manufactured. If the manufacturer has not assigned a model year, it means the calendar year in which the vehicle was manufactured. Notice means a document, other than a media article, that does not include a demand for relief, and that a manufacturer receives from a person other than NHTSA. Other safety campaign means an action in which a manufacturer communicates with owners and/or dealers in a foreign country with respect to conditions under which motor vehicles or equipment should be operated, repaired, or replaced that relate to safety (excluding promotional and marketing materials, customer satisfaction surveys, and operating instructions or owner's manuals that accompany the vehicle or child restraint system at the time of first sale); or advice or direction to a dealer or distributor to cease the delivery or sale of specified models of vehicles or equipment. Parking brake means a mechanism installed in a motor vehicle which is designed to prevent the movement of a stationary motor vehicle, including all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Platform means the basic structure of a vehicle including, but not limited to, the majority of the floorpan or undercarriage, and elements of the engine compartment. The term includes a structure that a manufacturer designates as a platform. A group of vehicles sharing a common structure or chassis shall be considered to have a common platform regardless of whether such vehicles are of the same type, are of the same make, or are sold by the same manufacturer. Plug-in hybrid (PHV) means a system that combines an electric motor and an internal combustion engine to propel a motor vehicle and is capable of recharging its batteries by plugging in to an external electric current. Power train means the components or systems of a motor vehicle which transfer motive power from the engine to the wheels, including the transmission (manual and automatic), gear selection devices and associated linkages, clutch, constant velocity joints, transfer case, driveline, differential(s), and all driven axle assemblies. This term includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Product evaluation report means a field report prepared by, and containing the observations or comments of, a manufacturer's employee who submitted the report concerning the operation or performance of a vehicle or child restraint system as part of the employee's personal use of the vehicle or child restraint system under a manufacturer's program authorizing such use, but does not include a report by an employee who has been granted personal use of a vehicle or child restraint system for the specific purpose of facilitating the employee's technical or engineering evaluation of a known or suspected problem with that vehicle or child restraint system. Production year means, for equipment and tires, the calendar year in which the item was produced. Property damage means physical injury to tangible property. Property damage claim means a claim for property damage, excluding that part of a claim, if any, pertaining solely to damage to a component or system of a vehicle or an item of equipment itself based on the alleged failure or malfunction of the component, system, or item, and further excluding matters addressed under warranty. Rear-facing infant seat means a child restraint system that is designed to position a child to face only in the direction opposite to the normal direction of travel of the motor vehicle. Reporting period means a calendar quarter of a year, unless otherwise stated. Roll stability control system means a system that: (i) Enhances rollover stability by applying and adjusting the vehicle brake torques to reduce lateral acceleration of a vehicle; (ii) Is computer-controlled with the computer using a closed-loop algorithm to enhance rollover stability; (iii) Has a means to determine the vehicle's lateral acceleration; (iv) Has a means to determine the vehicle mass or, if applicable, combination vehicle mass; (v) Has a means to modify engine torque, as necessary, to assist the driver in maintaining rollover stability of the vehicle and/or combination vehicle; and (vi) Can provide brake pressure to automatically apply on a truck tractor and modulate the brake torques of a towed semi-trailer. Rollover means a single-vehicle crash in which a motor vehicle rotates on its longitudinal axis to at least 90 degrees, regardless of whether it comes to rest on its wheels. Safety recall means an offer by a manufacturer to owners of motor vehicles or equipment in a foreign country to provide remedial action to address a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety or a failure to comply with an applicable safety standard or guideline, whether or not the manufacturer agrees to pay the full cost of the remedial action. Seats means all components of a motor vehicle that are subject to FMVSS Nos. 202, 207, and 209, including all electrical and electronic components within the seat that are related to seat positioning, heating, and cooling. This term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Seat belts means any belt system, other than an air bag, that may or may not require the occupant to latch, fasten, or secure the components of the seat belt/webbing based restraint system to ready its use for protection of the occupant in the event of a vehicle crash. This term includes the webbing, buckle, anchorage, retractor, belt pretensioner devices, load limiters, and all components, hardware and software associated with an automatic or manual seat belt system addressed by FMVSS No. 209 or 210. This term also includes integrated child restraint systems in vehicles, and includes any device (and all components of that device), installed in a motor vehicle in accordance with FMVSS No. 213, which is designed for use as a safety restraint device for a child too small to use a vehicle's seat belts. This term includes all vehicle components installed in accordance with FMVSS No. 225. This term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Seat shell means the portion of a child restraint system that provides the structural shape, form and support for the system, and for other components of the system such as belt attachment points, and anchorage points to allow the system to be secured to a passenger seat in a motor vehicle, but not including a shield. Service brake system means all components of the service braking system of a motor vehicle intended for the transfer of braking application force from the operator to the wheels of a vehicle, including the foundation braking system, such as the brake pedal, master cylinder, fluid lines and hoses, braking assist components, brake calipers, wheel cylinders, brake discs, brake drums, brake pads, brake shoes, and other related equipment installed in a motor vehicle in order to comply with FMVSS Nos. 105, 121, 122, or 135 (except equipment relating specifically to a parking brake). This term also includes systems and devices for automatic control of the brake system such as antilock braking, traction control, and enhanced braking, but does not include systems or devices necessary only for electronic stability control, or roll stability control. The term includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Sidewall means the area of a tire between the tread and the bead area, including the sidewall rubber components, the body ply and its coating rubber under the side area, and the inner-liner rubber under the body ply in the side area. Spark ignition fuel (SIF) means, in the context of reporting fuel and/or propulsion system type, a system that uses gasoline, ethanol, or methanol based fuels to propel a motor vehicle. SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) means the alpha-numeric designation assigned by a manufacturer to uniquely identify a tire product. This term is sometimes referred to as a product code, a product ID, or a part number. Steering system means all steering control system components, including the steering system mechanism and its associated hardware, the steering wheel, steering column, steering shaft, linkages, joints (including tie-rod ends), steering dampeners, and power steering assist systems. This term includes a steering control system as defined by FMVSS No. 203 and any subsystem or component of a steering control system, including those components defined in FMVSS No. 204. This term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Structure means any part of a motor vehicle that serves to maintain the shape and size of the vehicle, including the frame, the floorpan, the body, bumpers, doors, tailgate, hatchback, trunk lid, hood, and roof. The term also includes all associated mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Suspension system means all components and hardware associated with a motor vehicle suspension system, including the associated control arms, steering knuckles, spindles, joints, bushings, ball joints, springs, shock absorbers, stabilizer (anti sway) bars, and bearings that are designed to minimize the impact on the vehicle chassis of shocks from road surface irregularities that may be transmitted through the wheels, and to provide stability when the vehicle is being operated through a range of speed, load, and dynamic conditions. The term also includes all electronic control systems and mechanisms for active suspension control, as well as all associated components such as switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Tire means an item of motor vehicle equipment intended to interface between the road and a motor vehicle. The term includes all the tires of a vehicle, including the spare tire. For purposes of &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.24 and &#xA7; 579.27 of this part, this term also includes the tire inflation valves, tubes, and tire pressure monitoring and regulating systems, as well as all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Tire line means the entire name used by a tire manufacturer to designate a tire product including all prefixes and suffixes as they appear on the sidewall of a tire. Trailer hitch means all coupling systems, devices, and components thereof, designed to join or connect any two motor vehicles. This term also includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Tread (also known as crown) means all materials in the tread area of a tire including the rubber that makes up the tread, the sub-base rubber, when present, between the tread base and the top of the belts, the belt material, either steel and/or fabric, and the rubber coating of the same including any rubber inserts, the body ply and its coating rubber under the tread area of the tire, and the inner-liner rubber under the tread. Type means, in the context of a light vehicle, a vehicle certified by its manufacturer pursuant to &#xA7; 567.4(g)(7) of this chapter as a passenger car, multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck, or a vehicle identified by its manufacturer as an incomplete vehicle pursuant to &#xA7; 568.4 of this chapter. In the context of a medium heavy vehicle and bus, it means one of the following categories: Truck, tractor, transit bus, school bus, coach, recreational vehicle, emergency vehicle, or other. In the context of a trailer, it means one of the following categories: Recreational trailers, van trailers, flatbed trailer, trailer converter dolly, lowbed trailer, dump trailer, tank trailer, dry bulk trailer, livestock trailer, boat trailer, auto transporter, or other. In the context of a child restraint system, it means the category of child restraint system selected from one of the following: rear-facing infant seat, booster seat, or other. Vehicle speed control means the systems and components of a motor vehicle that control vehicle speed either by command of the operator or by automatic control, including, but not limited, to the accelerator pedal, linkages, cables, springs, speed control devices (such as cruise control) and speed limiting devices. This term includes, but is not limited to the items addressed by FMVSS No. 124 and all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Visibility means the systems and components of a motor vehicle through which a driver views the surroundings of the vehicle including windshield, side windows, back window, and rear view mirrors, and systems and components used to wash and wipe windshields and back windows. This term includes those vehicular systems and components that can affect the ability of the driver to clearly see the roadway and surrounding area, such as the systems and components identified in FMVSS Nos. 103, 104, and 111. This term also includes the defogger, defroster system, the heater core, blower fan, windshield wiper systems, mirrors, windows and glazing material, heads-up display (HUD) systems, and exterior view-based television systems for medium-heavy vehicles, but does not include exterior view-based television systems for light vehicles which are defined under &#x201C;Backover prevention system&#x201D; and exterior lighting systems which are defined under &#x201C;Lighting.&#x201D; This term includes all associated switches, control units, connective elements (such as wiring harnesses, hoses, piping, etc.), and mounting elements (such as brackets, fasteners, etc.). Warranty means any written affirmation of fact or written promise made in connection with the sale or lease of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment by a manufacturer to a buyer or lessee that relates to the nature of the material or workmanship and affirms or promises that such material or workmanship is defect free or will meet a specified level of performance over a specified period of time (including any extensions of such specified period of time), or any undertaking in writing in connection with the sale or lease by a manufacturer of a motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment to refund, repair, replace, or take other remedial action with respect to such product in the event that such product fails to meet the specifications set forth in the undertaking. Warranty adjustment means any payment or other restitution, such as, but not limited to, replacement, repair, credit, or cash refund, made by a tire manufacturer to a consumer or to a dealer, in reimbursement for payment or other restitution to a consumer, pursuant to a warranty program offered by the manufacturer or goodwill. Warranty claim means any claim paid by a manufacturer, including provision of a credit, pursuant to a warranty program, an extended warranty program, or good will. It does not include claims for reimbursement for costs or related expenses for work performed to remedy a safety-related defect or noncompliance reported to NHTSA under part 573 of this chapter, or in connection with a motor vehicle emissions-related recall under the Clean Air Act or in accordance with State law as authorized under 42 U.S.C. 7543(b) or 7507. Wheel means the assembly or component of a motor vehicle to which a tire is mounted. The term includes any item of motor vehicle equipment used to attach the wheel to the vehicle, including inner cap nuts and the wheel studs, bolts, and nuts. Work product means a document in the broad sense of the word, prepared in anticipation of litigation where there is a reasonable prospect of litigation and not for some other purpose such as a business practice, and prepared or requested by an attorney or an agent for an attorney. (d) Identical or substantially similar motor vehicle, item of motor vehicle equipment, or tire. (1) A motor vehicle sold or in use outside the United States is identical or substantially similar to a motor vehicle sold or offered for sale in the United States if- (i) Such a vehicle has been sold in Canada or has been certified as complying with the Canadian Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; (ii) Such a vehicle is listed in the VSP or VSA columns of appendix A to part 593 of this chapter; (iii) Such a vehicle is manufactured in the United States for sale in a foreign country; or (iv) Such a vehicle uses the same vehicle platform as a vehicle sold or offered for sale in the United States. (2) An item of motor vehicle equipment sold or in use outside the United States is identical or substantially similar to equipment sold or offered for sale in the United States if such equipment and the equipment sold or offered for sale in the United States have one or more components or systems that are the same, and the component or system performs the same function in vehicles or equipment sold or offered for sale in the United States, regardless of whether the part numbers are identical. (3) A tire sold or in use outside the United States is substantially similar to a tire sold or offered for sale in the United States if it has the same size, speed rating, load index, load range, number of plies and belts, and similar ply and belt construction and materials, placement of components, and component materials, irrespective of plant of manufacture or tire line. [43 FR 38833, Aug. 31, 1978, as amended at 67 FR 63310, Oct. 11, 2002; 68 FR 4113, Jan. 28, 2003; 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35142, June 11, 2003; 69 FR 20557, Apr. 16, 2004; 72 FR 29443, May 29, 2007; 74 FR 47757, Sept. 17, 2009; 78 FR 51423, Aug. 20, 2013; 79 FR 43679, July 28, 2014] &#xA7; 579.5 Notices, bulletins, customer satisfaction campaigns, consumer advisories, and other communications. (a) Each manufacturer shall furnish to NHTSA's Early Warning Division (NVS-217) a copy of all notices, bulletins, and other communications (including those transmitted by computer, telefax, or other electronic means and including warranty and policy extension communiqu&#xE9;s and product improvement bulletins) other than those required to be submitted pursuant to &#xA7; 573.6(c)(10) of this chapter, sent to more than one manufacturer, distributor, dealer, lessor, lessee, owner, or purchaser, in the United States, regarding any defect in its vehicles or items of equipment (including any failure or malfunction beyond normal deterioration in use, or any failure of performance, or any flaw or unintended deviation from design specifications), whether or not such defect is safety-related. (b) Each manufacturer shall furnish to NHTSA a copy of each communication relating to a customer satisfaction campaign, consumer advisory, recall, or other safety activity involving the repair or replacement of motor vehicles or equipment, that the manufacturer issued to, or made available to, more than one dealer, distributor, lessor, lessee, other manufacturer, owner, or purchaser, in the United States. (c) If a notice or communication is required to be submitted under both paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, it need only be submitted once. (d) Each copy shall be in readable form and shall be submitted not later than five working days after the end of the month in which it is issued. However, a document described in paragraph (b) of this section and issued before July 1, 2003, need not be submitted. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35147, June 11, 2003; 69 FR 49823, Aug. 12, 2004; 72 FR 32017, June 11, 2007] &#xA7; 579.6 Address for submitting reports and other information. (a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, information, reports, and documents required to be submitted to NHTSA pursuant to this part may be submitted by mail, by facsimile, or by e-mail. If submitted by mail, they must be addressed to the Associate Administrator for Enforcement, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Attention: Early Warning Division (NVS-217), 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590. If submitted by facsimile, they must be addressed to the Associate Administrator for Enforcement and transmitted to (202) 366-7882. If submitted by e-mail, submissions under subpart B of this part must be submitted to frecalls@dot.gov and submissions under &#xA7; 579.5 must be submitted to tsb@dot.gov. (b)(1) Information, documents and reports that are submitted to NHTSA's early warning data repository must be submitted in accordance with &#xA7; 579.29 of this part. Submissions must be made by a means that permits the sender to verify that the report was in fact received by NHTSA and the day it was received by NHTSA. (2) The annual list of substantially similar vehicles submitted pursuant to &#xA7; 579.11(e) of this part shall be submitted to NHTSA's early warning data repository identified on NHTSA's Web page http://www-odi.nhtsa.dot.gov/ewr/ewr.cfm. A manufacturer shall use the template provided at the early warning Web site, also identified on NHTSA's Web page http://www-odi.nhtsa.dot.gov/ewr/xls.cfm, for submitting the list. [68 FR 4113, Jan. 28, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 32017, June 11, 2007; 78 FR 51424, Aug. 20, 2013] &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.7-579.10 [Reserved] Subpart B-Reporting of Safety Recalls and Other Safety Campaigns in Foreign Countries Source: 67 FR 63310, Oct. 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 579.11 Reporting responsibilities. (a) Determination by a manufacturer. Not later than 5 working days after a manufacturer determines to conduct a safety recall or other safety campaign in a foreign country covering a motor vehicle, item of motor vehicle equipment, or tire that is identical or substantially similar to a vehicle, item of equipment, or tire sold or offered for sale in the United States, the manufacturer shall report the determination to NHTSA. For purposes of this paragraph, this period is determined by reference to the general business practices of the office in which such determination is made, and the office reporting to NHTSA. (b) Determination by a foreign government. Not later than 5 working days after a manufacturer receives written notification that a foreign government has determined that a safety recall or other safety campaign must be conducted in its country with respect to a motor vehicle, item of motor vehicle equipment, or tire that is identical or substantially similar to a vehicle, item of equipment, or tire sold or offered for sale in the United States, the manufacturer shall report the determination to NHTSA. For purposes of this paragraph, this period is determined by reference to the general business practices of the office where the manufacturer receives such notification, the manufacturer's international headquarters office (if involved), and the office reporting to NHTSA. (c) One-time historical reporting. Not later than 30 calendar days after November 12, 2002, a manufacturer that has made a determination to conduct a recall or other safety campaign in a foreign country, or that has received written notification that a foreign government has determined that a safety recall or other safety campaign must be conducted in its country in the period between November 1, 2000 and November 12, 2002, and that has not reported such determination or notification of determination to NHTSA in a report that identified the model(s) and model year(s) of the vehicles, equipment, or tires that were the subject of the foreign recall or other safety campaign, the model(s) and model year(s) of the vehicles, equipment, or tires that were identical or substantially similar to the subject of the recall or campaign, and the defect or other condition that led to the foreign recall or campaign, as of November 12, 2002, shall report such determination or notification of determination to NHTSA if the safety recall or other safety campaign covers a motor vehicle, item of motor vehicle equipment, or tire that is identical or substantially similar to a vehicle, item of equipment, or tire sold or offered for sale in the United States. However, a report need not be resubmitted under this paragraph if the original report identified the model(s) and model year(s) of the vehicles, equipment, or tires that were the subject of the foreign recall or other safety campaign, identified the model(s) and model year(s) of the identical or substantially similar products in the United States, and identified the defect or other condition that led to the foreign recall or other safety campaign. (d) Exemptions from reporting. Notwithstanding paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section a manufacturer need not report a foreign safety recall or other safety campaign to NHTSA if: (1) The manufacturer has determined that for the same or substantially similar reasons relating to motor vehicle safety that it is conducting a safety recall or other safety campaign in a foreign country, a safety-related defect or noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard exists in identical or substantially similar motor vehicles, motor vehicle equipment, or tires sold or offered for sale in the United States, and has filed a defect or noncompliance information report pursuant to part 573 of this chapter, provided that the scope of the foreign recall or campaign is not broader than the scope of the recall campaign in the United States; (2) The component or system that gave rise to the foreign recall or other campaign does not perform the same function in any substantially similar vehicles or equipment sold or offered for sale in the United States; or (3) The sole subject of the foreign recall or other campaign is a label affixed to a vehicle, item of equipment, or a tire. (e) Annual list of substantially similar vehicles. Not later than November 1 of each year, each manufacturer of motor vehicles that sells or offers a motor vehicle for sale in the United States shall submit to NHTSA a document that identifies both each model of motor vehicle that the manufacturer sells or plans to sell during the following year in a foreign country that the manufacturer believes is identical or substantially similar to a motor vehicle sold or offered for sale in the United States (or to a motor vehicle that is planned for sale in the United States in the following year), and each such identical or substantially similar motor vehicle sold or offered for sale in the United States. Not later than 30 days after January 28, 2003, each manufacturer to which this paragraph applies shall submit an initial annual list of vehicles for calendar year 2003 that meets the requirements of this paragraph. [67 FR 63310, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 4113, Jan. 28, 2003] &#xA7; 579.12 Contents of reports. (a) Each report made pursuant to &#xA7; 579.11 of this part must be dated and must include the information specified in &#xA7; 573.6(c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(5) of this chapter. Each such report must also identify each foreign country in which the safety recall or other safety campaign is being conducted, state whether the foreign action is a safety recall or other safety campaign, state whether the determination to conduct the recall or campaign was made by the manufacturer or by a foreign government, describe the manufacturer's program for remedying the defect or noncompliance (if the action is a safety recall), specify the date of the determination and the date the recall or other campaign was commenced or will commence in each foreign country, and identify all motor vehicles, equipment, or tires that the manufacturer sold or offered for sale in the United States that are identical or substantially similar to the motor vehicles, equipment, or tires covered by the foreign recall or campaign. If a determination has been made by a foreign government, the report must also include a copy of the determination in the original language and, if the determination is in a language other than English, a copy translated into English. (b) Information required by paragraph (a) of this section that is not available within the 5-working day period specified in &#xA7; 579.11 of this part shall be submitted as it becomes available. &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.13-579.20 [Reserved] Subpart C-Reporting of Early Warning Information &#xA7; 579.21 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of 5,000 or more light vehicles annually. For each reporting period, a manufacturer whose aggregate number of light vehicles manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported into the United States, during the calendar year of the reporting period or during each of the prior two calendar years is 5,000 or more shall submit the information described in this section. For paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the manufacturer shall submit information separately with respect to each make, model, and model year of light vehicle manufactured during the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, including models no longer in production. (a) Production information. Information that states the manufacturer's name, the quarterly reporting period, the make, the model, the model year, the type, the platform, the fuel and/or propulsion system type coded as follows: CNG (compressed natural gas), CIF (compression ignition fuel), EBP (electric battery power), FCP (fuel-cell power), HEV (hybrid electric vehicle), HCP (hydrogen combustion power), PHV (plug-in hybrid), SIF (spark ignition fuel), OTH (Other), and UNK (unknown) and the number of vehicles produced. The production shall be stated as either the cumulative production of the current model year to the end of the reporting period, or the total model year production for each model year for which production has ceased. (b) Information on incidents involving death or injury. For all light vehicles manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period: (1) A report on each incident involving one or more deaths or injuries occurring in the United States that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer or in a notice received by the manufacturer which notice alleges or proves that the death or injury was caused by a possible defect in the manufacturer's vehicle, together with each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer involving the manufacturer's vehicle, if that vehicle is identical or substantially similar to a vehicle that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. The report shall be submitted as a report on light vehicles and organized such that incidents are reported alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. (2) For each incident described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the manufacturer shall separately report the make, model, model year, the type, the fuel and/or propulsion system type (as specified in paragraph (a)), and VIN of the vehicle, the incident date, the number of deaths, the number of injuries for incidents occurring in the United States, the State or foreign country where the incident occurred, each system or component of the vehicle that allegedly contributed to the incident, and whether the incident involved a fire or rollover, coded as follows: 01 steering system, 02 suspension system, 03 foundation brake system, 04 automatic brake controls, 05 parking brake, 06 engine and engine cooling system, 07 fuel system, 10 power train, 11 electrical system, 12 exterior lighting, 13 visibility, 14 air bags, 15 seat belts, 16 structure, 17 latch, 18 vehicle speed control, 19 tires, 20 wheels, 22 seats, 23 fire, 24 rollover, 25 electronic stability control system, 26 forward collision avoidance system, 27 lane departure prevention system, 28 backover prevention system, 98 where a system or component not covered by categories 01 through 22 or 25 through 28, is specified in the claim or notice, and 99 where no system or component of the vehicle is specified in the claim or notice. If an incident involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with a limit of five codes to be included. If a vehicle manufacturer is unaware of the vehicle type at the time it receives the incident, the manufacturer shall use the abbreviation &#x201C;UN&#x201D; in its report to indicate that the vehicle type is unknown. (c) Numbers of property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports. Separate reports on the numbers of those property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports which involve the systems and components that are specified in codes 01 through 22, or 25 through 28 in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a fire (code 23), or rollover (code 24). Each such report shall state, separately by each such code, the number of such property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, or field reports, respectively, that involves the systems or components or fire or rollover indicated by the code. If an underlying property damage claim, consumer complaint, warranty claim, or field report involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with no limit on the number of codes to be included. No reporting is necessary if the system or component involved is not specified in such codes, and the incident did not involve a fire or rollover. For each report, the manufacturer shall separately state the vehicle type and fuel and/or propulsion system type if the manufacturer stated more than one vehicle type or fuel and/or propulsion system type for a particular make, model, model year in paragraph (a) of this section. For each report, the manufacturer shall separately state the vehicle type and fuel and/or propulsion system type if the manufacturer stated more than one vehicle type or fuel and/or propulsion system type for a particular make, model, model year in paragraph (a) of this section. If a vehicle manufacturer is unaware of the vehicle type at the time it receives the property damage claim, consumer complaint, warranty claim or field report, the manufacturer shall use the abbreviation &#x201C;UN&#x201D; in its report to indicate that the vehicle type is unknown. (d) Copies of field reports. For all light vehicles manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, a copy of each field report (other than a dealer report or a product evaluation report) involving one or more of the systems or components identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or fire, or rollover, containing any assessment of an alleged failure, malfunction, lack of durability, or other performance problem of a motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment (including any part thereof) that is originated by an employee or representative of the manufacturer and that the manufacturer received during a reporting period. These documents shall be submitted alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. For purposes of this paragraph, if a field report refers to more than one make or model of light vehicle produced by a manufacturer on a particular platform, the manufacturer shall submit the report alphabetically by platform rather than by make or model. If such a field report refers to more than one platform, separate copies shall be submitted for each such platform. If a field report refers to more than one model year of a specified make/model or platform, the manufacturer shall submit it by the earliest model year to which it refers. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35142, June 11, 2003; 72 FR 29443, May 29, 2007; 74 FR 47757, Sept. 17, 2009; 78 FR 51424, Aug. 20, 2013; 79 FR 43679, July 28, 2014] &#xA7; 579.22 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of 100 or more buses, manufacturers of 500 or more emergency vehicles and manufacturers of 5,000 or more medium-heavy vehicles (other than buses and emergency vehicles) annually. For each reporting period, a manufacturer whose aggregate number of buses manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported into the United States, during the calendar year of the reporting period or during either of the prior two calendar years is 100 or more shall submit the information described in this section. For each reporting period, a manufacturer whose aggregate number of emergency vehicles (ambulances and fire trucks) manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported into the United States, during the calendar year of the reporting period or during either of the prior two calendar years is 500 or more shall submit the information described in this section. For each reporting period, a manufacturer whose aggregate number of medium-heavy vehicles (a sum that does not include buses or emergency vehicles) manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported into the United States, during the calendar year of the reporting period or during either of the prior two calendar years is 5,000 or more shall submit the information described in this section. For paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the manufacturer shall submit information separately with respect to each make, model, and model year of bus, emergency vehicle and/or medium-heavy vehicle manufactured during the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, including models no longer in production. (a) Production information. Information that states the manufacturer's name, the quarterly reporting period, the make, the model, the model year, the type, and the production. The production shall be stated as either the cumulative production of the current model year to the end of the reporting period, or the total model year production for each model year for which production has ceased. For each model that is manufactured and available with more than one type of fuel system (i.e., gasoline, diesel, or other (including vehicles that can be operated using more than one type of fuel, such as gasoline and compressed natural gas)), the information required by this subsection shall be reported separately by each of the three fuel system types. For each model that is manufactured and available with more than one type of service brake system (i.e., hydraulic or air), the information required by this subsection shall be reported by each of the two brake types. If the service brake system in a vehicle is not readily characterized as either hydraulic or air, the vehicle shall be considered to have hydraulic service brakes. (b) Information on incidents involving death or injury. For all buses, emergency vehicles and medium heavy vehicles manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period: (1) A report on each incident involving one or more deaths or injuries occurring in the United States that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer or in a notice received by the manufacturer which notice alleges or proves that the death or injury was caused by a possible defect in the manufacturer's vehicle, together with each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer involving the manufacturer's vehicle, if that vehicle is identical or substantially similar to a vehicle that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. The report shall be submitted as a report on medium-heavy vehicles and buses and organized such that incidents are reported alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. (2) For each incident described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the manufacturer shall separately report the make, model, model year, and VIN of the bus, emergency vehicle or medium-heavy vehicle, the incident date, the number of deaths, the number of injuries for incidents occurring in the United States, the State or foreign country where the incident occurred, each system or component of the vehicle that allegedly contributed to the incident, and whether the incident involved a fire or rollover, coded as follows: 01 steering system, 02 suspension system, 03 service brake system, hydraulic, 04 service brake system, air, 05 parking brake, 06 engine and engine cooling system, 07 fuel system, gasoline, 08 fuel system, diesel, 09 fuel system, other, 10 power train, 11 electrical, 12 exterior lighting, 13 visibility, 14 air bags, 15 seat belts, 16 structure, 17 latch, 18 vehicle speed control, 19 tires, 20 wheels, 21 trailer hitch, 22 seats, 23 fire, 24 rollover, 25 electronic stability control system and/or roll stability control system, 98 where a system or component not covered by categories 01 through 22 or 25 is specified in the claim or notice, and 99 where no system or component of the vehicle is specified in the claim or notice. If an incident involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with a limit of five codes to be included. (c) Numbers of property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports. Separate reports on the numbers of those property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports which involve the systems and components that are specified in codes 01 through 22, or 25 in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a fire (code 23), or rollover (code 24). Each such report shall state, separately by each such code, the number of such property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, or field reports, respectively, that involves the systems or components or fire or rollover indicated by the code. If an underlying property damage claim, consumer complaint, warranty claim, or field report involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with no limit on the number of codes to be included. No reporting is necessary if the system or component involved is not specified in such codes, and the incident did not involve a fire or rollover. (d) Copies of field reports. For all buses, emergency vehicles and medium-heavy vehicles manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, a copy of each field report (other than a dealer report or a product evaluation report) involving one or more of the systems or components identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or fire, or rollover, containing any assessment of an alleged failure, malfunction, lack of durability, or other performance problem of a motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment (including any part thereof) that is originated by an employee or representative of the manufacturer and that the manufacturer received during a reporting period. These documents shall be submitted alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. For purposes of this paragraph, if a field report refers to more than one make or model of vehicle produced by a manufacturer on a particular platform, the manufacturer shall submit the report alphabetically by platform rather than by make or model. If such a field report refers to more than one platform, separate copies shall be submitted for each such platform. If a field report refers to more than one model year of a specified make/model or platform, the manufacturer shall submit it by the earliest model year to which it refers. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35143, June 11, 2003; 72 FR 29443, May 29, 2007; 74 FR 47757, Sept. 17, 2009; 78 FR 51425, Aug. 20, 2013] &#xA7; 579.23 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of 5,000 or more motorcycles annually. For each reporting period, a manufacturer whose aggregate number of motorcycles manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported into the United States, during the calendar year of the reporting period or during either of the prior two calendar years is 5,000 or more shall submit the information described in this section. For paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the manufacturer shall submit information separately with respect to each make, model, and model year of motorcycle manufactured during the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, including models no longer in production. (a) Production information. Information that states the manufacturer's name, the quarterly reporting period, the make, the model, the model year, and the production. The production shall be stated as either the cumulative production of the current model year to the end of the reporting period, or the total model year production for each model year for which production has ceased. (b) Information on incidents involving death or injury. For all motorcycles manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period: (1) A report on each incident involving one or more deaths or injuries occurring in the United States that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer or in a notice received by the manufacturer which notice alleges or proves that the death or injury was caused by a possible defect in the manufacturer's motorcycle, together with each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer involving the manufacturer's motorcycle, if that motorcycle is identical or substantially similar to a motorcycle that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. The report shall be submitted as a report on motorcycles and organized such that incidents are reported alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. (2) For each incident described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the manufacturer shall separately report the make, model, model year, and VIN of the motorcycle, the incident date, the number of deaths, the number of injuries for incidents occurring in the United States, the State or foreign country where the incident occurred, each system or component of the motorcycle that allegedly contributed to the incident, and whether the incident involved a fire, coded as follows: 01 steering, 02 suspension, 03 service brake system, 06 engine and engine cooling, 07 fuel system, 10 power train, 11 electrical, 12 exterior lighting, 16 structure,18 vehicle speed control, 19 tires, 20 wheels, 23 fire, 98 where a system or component not covered by categories 01 through 20 is specified in the claim or notice, and 99 where no system or component of the vehicle is specified in the claim or notice. If an incident involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with a limit of five codes to be included. (c) Numbers of property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports. Separate reports on the numbers of those property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports which involve the systems and components that are specified in codes 01 through 20 in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a fire (code 23). Each such report shall state, separately by each such code, the number of such property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, or field reports, respectively, that involves the systems or components or fire indicated by the code. If an underlying property damage claim, consumer complaint, warranty claim, or field report involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with no limit on the number of codes to be included. No reporting is necessary if the system or component involved is not specified in such codes, and the incident did not involve a fire. (d) Copies of field reports. For all motorcycles manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, a copy of each field report (other than a dealer report or a product evaluation report) involving one or more of the systems or components identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or fire, containing any assessment of an alleged failure, malfunction, lack of durability, or other performance problem of a motorcycle or item of motor vehicle equipment (including any part thereof) that is originated by an employee or representative of the manufacturer and that the manufacturer received during a reporting period. These documents shall be submitted alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. For purposes of this paragraph, if a field report refers to more than one make or model of motorcycle produced by a manufacturer on a particular platform, the manufacturer shall submit the report alphabetically by platform rather than by make or model. If such a field report refers to more than one platform, separate copies shall be submitted for each such platform. If a field report refers to more than one model year of a specified make/model or platform, the manufacturer shall submit it by the earliest model year to which it refers. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35143, June 11, 2003; 72 FR 29443, May 29, 2007; 74 FR 47758, Sept. 17, 2009] &#xA7; 579.24 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of 5,000 or more trailers annually. For each reporting period, a manufacturer whose aggregate number of trailers manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported into the United States, during the calendar year of the reporting period or during either of the prior two calendar years is 5,000 or more shall submit the information described in this section. For paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the manufacturer shall submit information with respect to each make, model and model year of trailer manufactured during the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, including models no longer in production. (a) Production information. Information that states the manufacturer's name, the quarterly reporting period, the make, the model, the model year, the type, and the production. The production shall be stated as either the cumulative production of the current model year to the end of the reporting period, or the total model year production for each model year for which production has ceased. For each model that is manufactured and available with more than one type of service brake system ( i.e., hydraulic and air), the information required by this subsection shall be reported by each of the two brake types ( i.e., &#x201C;H&#x201D; for hydraulic, &#x201C;A&#x201D; for air). If the service brake system in a trailer is not readily characterized as either hydraulic or air, the trailer shall be considered to have hydraulic service brakes. If a model has no brake system, it shall be reported as &#x201C;N,&#x201D; for none. (b) Information on incidents involving death or injury. For all trailers manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period: (1) A report on each incident involving one or more deaths or injuries occurring in the United States that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer or in a notice received by the manufacturer which notice alleges or proves that the death or injury was caused by a possible defect in the manufacturer's trailer, together with each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer involving the manufacturer's trailer, if that trailer is identical or substantially similar to a trailer that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. The report shall be submitted as a report on trailers and organized such that incidents are reported alphabetically by make, with each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. (2) For each incident described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the manufacturer shall separately report the make, model, model year, and VIN of the trailer, the incident date, the number of deaths, the number of injuries for incidents occurring in the United States, the State or foreign country where the incident occurred, each system or component of the trailer that allegedly contributed to the incident, and whether the incident involved a fire, coded as follows: 02 suspension, 03 service brake system, hydraulic, 04 service brake system, air, 05 parking brake, 11 electrical, 12 exterior lighting, 16 structure, 17 latch, 19 tires, 20 wheels, 21 trailer hitch, 23 fire, 98 where a system or component not covered by categories 02 through 21 is specified in the claim or notice, and 99 where no system or component of the trailer is specified in the claim or notice. If an incident involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with a limit of five codes to be included. (c) Numbers of property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports. Separate reports on the numbers of those property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports which involve the systems and components that are specified in codes 02 through 21 in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a fire (code 23). Each such report shall state, separately by each such code, the number of such property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, or field reports, respectively, that involves the systems or components or fire indicated by the code. If an underlying property damage claim, consumer complaint, warranty claim, or field report involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with no limit on the number of codes to be included. No reporting is necessary if the system or component involved is not specified in such codes, and the incident did not involve a fire. (d) Copies of field reports. For all trailers manufactured during a model year covered by the reporting period and the nine model years prior to the earliest model year in the reporting period, a copy of each field report (other than a dealer report or a product evaluation report) involving one or more of the systems or components identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or fire, containing any assessment of an alleged failure, malfunction, lack of durability, or other performance problem of a trailer or item of motor vehicle equipment (including any part thereof) that is originated by an employee or representative of the manufacturer and that the manufacturer received during a reporting period. These documents shall be submitted alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. For purposes of this paragraph, if a field report refers to more than one make or model of trailer produced by a manufacturer on a particular platform, the manufacturer shall submit the report alphabetically by platform rather than by make or model. If such a field report refers to more than one platform, separate copies shall be submitted for each such platform. If a field report refers to more than one model year of a specified make/model or platform, the manufacturer shall submit it by the earliest model year to which it refers. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 18143, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35143, June 11, 2003; 72 FR 29443, May 29, 2007; 74 FR 47758, Sept. 17, 2009] &#xA7; 579.25 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of child restraint systems. For each reporting period, a manufacturer who has manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported child restraint systems into the United States, shall submit the information described in this section. For paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the manufacturer shall submit information separately with respect to each make, model, and production year of child restraint system manufactured during the reporting period and the four production years prior to the earliest production year in the reporting period, including models no longer in production. For paragraph (c) of this section, if any consumer complaints or warranty claims regarding a model of child restraint system do not specify the production year of the system, the manufacturer shall submit information for &#x201C;unknown&#x201D; production year in addition to the up-to-five production years for which the manufacturer must otherwise report the number of such consumer complaints/warranty claims. (a) Production information. Information that states the manufacturer's name, the quarterly reporting period, the make, the model, the production year, the type, and the production. The production shall be stated as either the cumulative production of the current model year to the end of the reporting period, or the total calendar year production for each calendar year for which production has ceased. (b) Information on incidents involving death or injury. For all child restraint systems manufactured during a production year covered by the reporting period and the four production years prior to the earliest production year in the reporting period: (1) A report on each incident involving one or more deaths or injuries occurring in the United States that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer or in a notice received by the manufacturer which notice alleges or proves that the death or injury was caused by a possible defect in the manufacturer's child restraint system, together with each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer involving the manufacturer's child restraint system, if the child restraint system is identical or substantially similar to a child restraint system that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. The report shall be submitted as a report on child restraint systems and organized such that incidents are reported alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by production year. (2) For each such incident described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the manufacturer shall separately report the make, model, and production year of the child restraint system, the incident date, the number of deaths, the number of injuries for incidents occurring in the United States, the State or foreign country where the incident occurred, and each system or component of the child restraint system that allegedly contributed to the incident, coded as follows: 51 buckle and restraint harness, 52 seat shell, 53 handle, 54 base, 98 where a system or component not covered by categories 51 through 54 is specified in the claim or notice, and 99 where no system or component of the child restraint system is specified in the claim or notice. If an incident involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report. If the production year of the child restraint system is unknown, the manufacturer shall specify the number &#x201C;9999&#x201D; in the field for production year. (c) Numbers of consumer complaints and warranty claims, and field reports. Separate reports on the numbers of those consumer complaints and warranty claims, and field reports, which involve the systems and components that are specified in codes 51 through 54 in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each such report shall state, separately by each such code, the number of such consumer complaints and warranty claims, or field reports, respectively, that involves the systems or components indicated by the code. If an underlying consumer complaint and warranty claim, or field report, involves more than one such code, each shall be counted separately in the report with no limit on the number of codes to be included. No reporting is necessary if the system or component involved is not specified in such codes. (d) Copies of field reports. For all child restraint systems manufactured during a production year covered by the reporting period and the four production years prior to the earliest production year in the reporting period, a copy of each field report (other than a dealer report or a product evaluation report) involving one or more of the systems or components identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, containing any assessment of an alleged failure, malfunction, lack of durability, or other performance problem of a child restraint system (including any part thereof) that is originated by an employee or representative of the manufacturer and that the manufacturer received during a reporting period. These documents shall be submitted alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by production year. For purposes of this paragraph, if a field report refers to more than one make or model of child restraint system produced by a manufacturer, the manufacturer shall submit the report under the first such model in alphabetical order. If a field report refers to more than one production year of a specified make/model, the manufacturer shall submit it by the earliest production year to which it refers. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18143, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35144, June 11, 2003; 72 FR 29444, May 29, 2007] &#xA7; 579.26 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of tires. For each reporting period, a manufacturer (including a brand name owner) who has manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced or delivered for introduction in interstate commerce, or imported tires in the United States shall submit the information described in this section. For purposes of this section, an importer of motor vehicles for resale is deemed to be the manufacturer of the tires on and in the vehicle at the time of its importation if the manufacturer of the tires is not required to report under this section. For paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the manufacturer shall submit information separately with respect to each tire line, size, SKU, plant where manufactured, and model year of tire manufactured during the reporting period and the four calendar years prior to the reporting period, including tire lines no longer in production. For each group of tires with the same SKU, plant where manufactured, and year for which the volume produced or imported is less than 15,000, or are deep tread, winter-type snow tires, space-saver or temporary use spare tires, tires with nominal rim diameters of 12 inches or less, or are not passenger car tires, light truck tires, or motorcycle tires, the manufacturer need only report information on incidents involving a death or injury, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. For purposes of this section, the two- or three-character DOT alphanumeric code for production plants located in the United States assigned by NHTSA in accordance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 574.5 and 574.6 of this chapter may be used to identify &#x201C;plant where manufactured. &#x201D; If the production plant is located outside the United States, the full plant name must be provided. (a) Production information. Information that states the manufacturer's name, the quarterly reporting period, the tire line, the tire size, the tire type code or manufacturer's code, the SKU, the plant where manufactured, whether the tire is approved for use as original equipment on a motor vehicle, if so, the make, model, and model year of each vehicle for which it is approved, the production year, the cumulative warranty production, and the cumulative total production through the end of the reporting period. If the manufacturer knows that a particular group of tires is not used as original equipment on a motor vehicle, it shall state &#x201C;N&#x201D; in the appropriate field, and if the manufacturer is not certain, it shall state &#x201C;U&#x201D; in that field. (b) Information on incidents involving death or injury. For all tires manufactured during a production year covered by the reporting period and the four production years prior to the earliest production year in the reporting period: (1) A report on each incident involving one or more deaths or injuries occurring in the United States that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer or in a notice received by the manufacturer which notice alleges or proves that the death or injury was caused by a possible defect in the manufacturer's tire, together with each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer involving the manufacturer's tire, if that tire is identical or substantially similar to a tire that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. The report shall be submitted as a report on tires and organized such that incidents are reported alphabetically by tire line, within each tire line by tire size, and within each tire size chronologically by production year. (2) For each such incident described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the manufacturer shall separately report the tire line, size, and production year of the tire, the TIN, the incident date, the number of deaths, the number of injuries for incidents occurring in the United States, the State or foreign country where the incident occurred, the make, model, and model year of the vehicle on which the tire was installed, and each component of the tire that allegedly contributed to the incident, coded as follows: 71 tread, 72 sidewall, 73 bead, 98 where a component not covered by categories 71 through 73 is specified in the claim or notice, and 99 where no component of the tire is specified in the claim or notice. If an incident involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report. (c) Numbers of property damage claims and warranty adjustments. Separate reports on the numbers of those property damage claims and warranty adjustments which involve the components that are specified in codes 71 through 73, and 98, in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each such report shall state, separately by each such code, the numbers of such property damage claims and warranty adjustments, respectively, that involve the components indicated by the code. If an underlying property damage claim or warranty adjustment involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with no limit on the number of codes to be included. No reporting is necessary if the system or component involved is not specified in such codes, or if the TIN is not specified in any property damage claim. (d) Common green tire reporting. With each quarterly report, each manufacturer of tires shall provide NHTSA with a list of common green tires. For each specific common green tire grouping, the list shall provide all relevant tire lines, tire type codes or manufacturer's code, SKU numbers, brand names, and brand name owners. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18143, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35144, June 11, 2003; 80 FR 19564, Apr. 13, 2015] &#xA7; 579.27 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of fewer than 100 buses annually, for manufacturers of fewer than 500 emergency vehicles annually, for manufacturers of fewer than 5,000 light vehicles, medium-heavy vehicles (other than buses and emergency vehicles), motorcycles or trailers annually, for manufacturers of original equipment, and for manufacturers of replacement equipment other than child restraint systems and tires. (a) Applicability. This section applies to all manufacturers of vehicles with respect to vehicles that are not covered by reports on light vehicles, medium-heavy vehicles and buses, motorcycles, or trailers submitted pursuant to &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.24 of this part, to all manufacturers of original equipment, to all manufacturers of replacement equipment other than manufacturers of tires and child restraint systems, and to registered importers registered under 49 U.S.C. 30141(c). (b) Information on incidents involving deaths. For each reporting period, a manufacturer to which this section applies shall submit a report, pertaining to vehicles and/or equipment manufactured or sold during the calendar year of the reporting period and the nine calendar years prior to the reporting period (four calendar years for equipment), including models no longer in production, on each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in the United States that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer or in a notice received by the manufacturer which notice alleges or proves that the death was caused by a possible defect in the manufacturer's vehicle or equipment, together with each incident involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in a claim against and received by the manufacturer involving the manufacturer's vehicle or equipment, if it is identical or substantially similar to a vehicle or item of equipment that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. The report shall be organized such that incidents are reported alphabetically by make, within each make alphabetically by model, and within each model chronologically by model year. If a manufacturer has not received such a claim or notice during a reporting period, the manufacturer need not submit a report to NHTSA for that reporting period. (c) For each incident described in paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer shall separately report the make, model, and model year of the vehicle or equipment, the VIN (for vehicles only), the incident date, the number of deaths, the number of injuries for incidents occurring in the United States, the State or foreign country where the incident occurred, each system or component of the vehicle or equipment that allegedly contributed to the incident, and whether the incident involved a fire or rollover, as follows: (1) For light vehicles, the system or component involved, and the existence of a fire or rollover, shall be identified and coded as specified in &#xA7; 579.21(b)(2) of this part. (2) For medium-heavy vehicles and buses, the system or component involved, and the existence of a fire or rollover, shall be identified and coded as specified in &#xA7; 579.22(b)(2) of this part. (3) For motorcycles, the system or component involved, and the existence of a fire, shall be identified and coded as specified in &#xA7; 579.23(b)(2) of this part. (4) For trailers, the system or component involved, and the existence of a fire, shall be identified and coded as specified in &#xA7; 579.24(b)(2) of this part. (5) For original and replacement equipment, a written identification of each component of the equipment that was allegedly involved, and whether there was a fire, in the manufacturer's own words. (6) For original and replacement equipment, if the production year of the equipment is unknown, the manufacturer shall specify the number &#x201C;9999&#x201D; in the field for model or production year. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18143, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 35144, June 11, 2003; 74 FR 47758, Sept. 17, 2009] &#xA7; 579.28 Due date of reports and other miscellaneous provisions. (a) Initial submission of reports. Except as provided in paragraph (n) of this section, the first calendar quarter for which reports are required under &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.27 of this subpart is the third calendar quarter of 2003. (b) Due date of reports. Except as provided in subsection (n) of this section, each manufacturer of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment shall submit each report that is required by this subpart not later than 60 days after the last day of the reporting period. Except as provided in &#xA7; 579.27(b), if a manufacturer has not received any of the categories of information or documents during a quarter for which it is required to report pursuant to &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.26, the manufacturer's report must indicate that no relevant information or documents were received during that quarter. If the due date for any report is a Saturday, Sunday or a Federal holiday, the report shall be due on the next business day. (c) One-time reporting of historical information. (1) No later than January 15, 2004: (i) Each manufacturer of vehicles covered by &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.24 of this part shall file separate reports providing information on the numbers of warranty claims recorded in the manufacturer's warranty system, and field reports, that it received in each calendar quarter from July 1, 2000, to June 30, 2003, for vehicles manufactured in model years 1994 through 2003 (including any vehicle designated as a 2004 model); (ii) Each manufacturer of child restraint systems covered by &#xA7; 579.25 of this part shall file separate reports covering the numbers of warranty claims recorded in the manufacturer's warranty system and consumer complaints (added together), and field reports, that it received in each calendar quarter from July 1, 2000, to June 30, 2003, for child restraint systems manufactured from July 1, 1998, to June 30, 2003, and (iii) Each manufacturer of tires covered by &#xA7; 579.26 of this part shall file separate reports covering the numbers of warranty adjustments recorded in the manufacturer's warranty adjustment system for tires that it received in each calendar quarter from July 1, 2000, to June 30, 2003, for tires manufactured from July 1, 1998, to June 30, 2003. (2) Each report filed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall include production data, as specified in paragraph (a) of 579.21 through 579.26 of this part and shall identify the alleged system or component covered by warranty claim, warranty adjustment, or field report as specified in paragraph (c) of 579.21 through 579.26 of this part. (d) Minimal specificity. A claim or notice involving death, a claim or notice involving injury, a claim involving property damage, a consumer complaint, a warranty claim or warranty adjustment, or a field report need not be reported if it does not identify the vehicle or equipment with minimal specificity. If a manufacturer initially receives a claim, notice, complaint, warranty claim, warranty adjustment, or field report in which the vehicle or equipment is not identified with minimal specificity and subsequently obtains information that provides the requisite information needed to identify the product with minimal specificity, the claim, etc. shall be deemed to have been received when the additional information is received. If a manufacturer receives a claim or notice involving death or injury in which the vehicle or equipment is not identified with minimal specificity and the matter is being handled by legal counsel retained by the manufacturer, the manufacturer shall attempt to obtain the missing minimal specificity information from such counsel. (e) Claims received by registered agents. A claim received by any registered agent of a manufacturer under the laws of any State, or the agent that any manufacturer offering motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for import has designated pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30164(a), shall be deemed received by the manufacturer. (f) Updating of information required in reports. (1) Except as specified in this subsection, a manufacturer need not update its reports under this subpart. (2) With respect to each report of an incident submitted under paragraph (b) of &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.26 of this part: (i) If a vehicle manufacturer is not aware of the VIN, or a tire manufacturer is not aware of the TIN, at the time the incident is initially reported, the manufacturer shall submit an updated report of such incident in its report covering the reporting period in which the VIN or TIN is identified. A manufacturer need not submit an updated report if the VIN or TIN is identified by the manufacturer in a reporting period that is more than one year later than the initial report to NHTSA. (ii) If a manufacturer indicated code 99 in its report because a system or component had not been identified in the claim or notice that led to the report, and the manufacturer becomes aware during a subsequent calendar quarter that one or more of the specified systems or components allegedly contributed to the incident, the manufacturer shall submit an updated report of such incident in its report covering the reporting period in which the involved specified system(s) or component(s) is (are) identified. A manufacturer need not submit an updated report if the system(s) or component(s) is(are) identified by the manufacturer in a reporting period that is more than one year later than the initial report to NHTSA. (iii) If one or more systems or components is identified in a manufacturer's report of an incident, the manufacturer need not submit an updated report to reflect additional systems or components allegedly involved in the incident that it becomes aware of in a subsequent reporting period. (iv) If the report is of an incident involving an injury and an injured person dies after a manufacturer has reported the injury to NHTSA, the manufacturer need not submit an updated report to NHTSA reflecting that death. (g) When a report involving a death is not required. A report on incident(s) involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in claim(s) against a manufacturer of motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment involving a vehicle or equipment that is identical or substantially similar to equipment that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States need not be furnished if the claim specifically alleges that the death was caused by a possible defect in a component other than one that is common to the vehicle or equipment that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. (h) When a report involving a claim or notice is not required. If a manufacturer has reported a claim or notice relating to an incident involving death or injury, the manufacturer need not: (1) Report a claim or notice arising out of the incident by a person who was not injured physically, and (2) Include in its number of property damage claims a property damage claim arising out of the incident. (i) Reporting on behalf of other manufacturers. Whenever a fabricating manufacturer or importer submits a report on behalf of one or more other manufacturers (including a brand name owner), as authorized under &#xA7; 579.3(b) of this part, the submitting manufacturer must identify each such other manufacturer. Whenever a brand name owner submits a report on its own behalf, it must identify the fabricating manufacturer of each separate product on which it is reporting. (j) Abbreviations. Whenever a manufacturer is required to identify a State in which an incident occurred, the manufacturer shall use the two-letter abbreviations established by the United States Postal Service (e.g., AZ for Arizona). Whenever a manufacturer is required to identify a foreign country in which an incident occurred, the manufacturer shall use the English-language name of the country in non-abbreviated form. (k) Claims of confidentiality. If a manufacturer claims that any of the information, data, or documents that it submits is entitled to confidential treatment, it must make such claim in accordance with part 512 of this chapter. (l) Additional related information that NHTSA may request. In addition to information required periodically under this subpart, NHTSA may request other information that may help identify a defect related to motor vehicle safety. (m) Use of the plural. As used in this part, the plural includes the singular and the singular includes the plural to bring within the scope of reporting that which might otherwise be construed to be without the scope. (n) Submission of copies of field reports. Copies of field reports required under this subpart shall be submitted not later than 15 days after reports are due pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18143, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 20225, Apr. 24, 2003; 68 FR 35144, 35148, June 11, 2003; 68 FR 64569, Nov. 14, 2003; 69 FR 57869, Sept. 28, 2004; 70 FR 2023, Jan. 12, 2005; 72 FR 29444, May 29, 2007] &#xA7; 579.29 Manner of reporting. (a) Submission of reports. (1) Except as provided in this paragraph, each report required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.26 of this part must be submitted to NHTSA's early warning data repository identified on NHTSA's Internet homepage ( www.nhtsa.dot.gov ). A manufacturer must use templates provided at the early warning website, also identified on NHTSA's homepage, for submitting reports. For data files smaller than the size limit of the Internet e-mail server of the Department of Transportation, a manufacturer may submit a report as an attachment to an e-mail message to odi.ewr@nhtsa.dot.gov, using the same templates. (2) Each report required under &#xA7; 579.27 of this part may be submitted to NHTSA's early warning data repository as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or by manually filling out an interactive form on NHTSA's early warning website. (3) For each report required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.26 of this part and submitted in the manner provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a manufacturer must state the make, model and model year of each motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment in terms that are identical to the statement of the make, model, model year of each motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment provided in the manufacturer's previous report. (b) Submission of documents. A copy of each document required under paragraph (d) of &#xA7;&#xA7; 579.21 through 579.26 of this part may be submitted in digital form using a graphic compression protocol, approved by NHTSA, to the NHTSA data repository, or as an attachment to an e-mail message, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Any digital image provided by a manufacturer shall be not less than 200 or more than 300 dpi (dots per inch) resolution. Such documents may also be submitted in paper form. Each document shall be identified in accordance with the templates provided at NHTSA's early warning Web site, which is identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (c) Designation of manufacturer contacts. Not later than 30 days prior to the date of its first quarterly submission, each manufacturer must provide the names, office telephone numbers, postal and street mailing addresses, and electronic mail addresses of two employees (one primary and one back-up) whom NHTSA may contact for resolving issues that may arise concerning the submission of information and documents required by this part. (d) Manufacturer reporting identification and password. Not later than 30 days prior to the date of its first quarterly submission, each manufacturer must request a manufacturer identification number and a password. (e) Graphic compression protocol. Not later than 30 days prior to the date of its first quarterly submission, each manufacturer which wishes to submit a copy of a document in digital form, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, must obtain approval from NHTSA for the use of such protocol. (f) Information and requests submitted under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section shall be provided in writing to the Director, Office of Defects Investigation, NHTSA, Attention: Early Warning Division (NVS-217), 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590. [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 35145, June 11, 2003; 72 FR 32017, June 11, 2007; 74 FR 47758, Sept. 17, 2009]