PART 1560-SECURE FLIGHT PROGRAM Authority: 49 U.S.C. 114, 40113, 44901, 44902, 44903. Source: 73 FR 64061, Oct. 28, 2008, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 1560.1 Scope, purpose, and implementation. (a) Scope. This part applies to the following: (1) Aircraft operators required to adopt a full program under 49 CFR 1544.101(a). (2) Foreign air carriers required to adopt a security program under 49 CFR 1546.101(a) or (b). (3) Airport operators that seek to authorize individuals to enter a sterile area for purposes approved by TSA. (4) Individuals who seek redress in accordance with subpart C of this part. (b) Purpose. The purpose of this part is to enhance the security of air travel within the United States and support the Federal government's counterterrorism efforts by assisting in the detection of individuals identified on Federal government watch lists who seek to travel by air, and to facilitate the secure travel of the public. This part enables TSA to operate a watch list matching program known as Secure Flight, which involves the comparison of passenger and non-traveler information with the identifying information of individuals on Federal government watch lists. (c) Implementation. Each covered aircraft operator must begin requesting the information described in &#xA7; 1560.101(a)(1) and have the capability to transmit SFPD to TSA in accordance with its Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP) as approved by TSA. Each covered aircraft operator must begin transmitting information to TSA as required in &#xA7; 1560.101(b) on the date specified in, and in accordance with, its AOIP as approved by TSA. TSA will inform each covered aircraft operator 60 days prior to the date on which TSA will assume the watch list matching function from that aircraft operator. &#xA7; 1560.3 Terms used in this part. In addition to the terms in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1500.3 and 1540.5 of this chapter, the following terms apply to this part: Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan or AOIP means a written procedure describing how and when a covered aircraft operator or airport operator transmits passenger and flight information and non-traveler information to TSA, as well as other related matters. Airport code means the official code, designated by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), for an airport. Consolidated User Guide means a document developed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to provide guidance to aircraft operators that must transmit passenger information to one or more components of DHS on operational processing and transmission of passenger information to all required components in a unified manner. The Consolidated User Guide is part of the covered aircraft operator's security program. Covered aircraft operator means each aircraft operator required to carry out a full program under 49 CFR 1544.101(a) or a security program under 49 CFR 1546.101(a) or (b). Covered airport operator means each airport operator that seeks to authorize non-traveling individuals to enter a sterile area for a purpose permitted by TSA. Covered flight means any operation of an aircraft that is subject to or operates under a full program under 49 CFR 1544.101(a). Covered flight also means any operation of an aircraft that is subject to or operates under a security program under 49 CFR 1546.101(a) or (b) arriving in or departing from the United States, or overflying the continental United States. Covered flight does not include any flight for which TSA has determined that the Federal government is conducting passenger matching comparable to the matching conducted pursuant to this part. Date of birth means the day, month, and year of an individual's birth. Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program or DHS TRIP means the voluntary program through which individuals may request redress if they believe they have been: (1) Denied or delayed boarding transportation due to DHS screening programs; (2) Denied or delayed entry into or departure from the United States at a port of entry; or (3) Identified for additional (secondary) screening at U.S. transportation facilities, including airports, and seaports. Full name means an individual's full name as it appears on a verifying identity document held by the individual. Inhibited status means the status of a passenger or non-traveling individual to whom TSA has instructed a covered aircraft operator or a covered airport operator not to issue a boarding pass or to provide access to the sterile area. Itinerary information means information reflecting a passenger's or non-traveling individual's itinerary specified in the covered aircraft operator's AOIP. For non-traveling individuals, itinerary information is the airport code for the sterile area to which the non-traveler seeks access. For passengers, itinerary information includes the following: (1) Departure airport code. (2) Aircraft operator. (3) Scheduled departure date. (4) Scheduled departure time. (5) Scheduled arrival date. (6) Scheduled arrival time. (7) Arrival airport code. (8) Flight number. (9) Operating carrier (if available). Known Traveler Number means a unique number assigned to an individual for whom the Federal government has conducted a security threat assessment and determined does not pose a security threat. Non-traveling individual or non-traveler means an individual to whom a covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator seeks to issue an authorization to enter the sterile area of an airport in order to escort a minor or a passenger with disabilities or for some other purpose permitted by TSA. The term non-traveling individual or non-traveler does not include employees or agents of airport or aircraft operators or other individuals whose access to a sterile area is governed by another TSA requirement. Overflying the continental United States means departing from an airport or location outside the United States and transiting the airspace of the continental United States en route to another airport or location outside the United States. Airspace of the continental United States includes the airspace over the lower 48 states of the United States, not including Alaska or Hawaii, and the airspace overlying the territorial waters between the U.S. coast of the lower 48 states and 12 nautical miles from the continental U.S. coast. Overflying the continental United States does not apply to: (1) Flights that transit the airspace of the continental United States between two airports or locations in the same country, where that country is Canada or Mexico; or (2) Any other category of flights that the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration) designates in a notice in the Federal Register. Passenger means an individual who is traveling on a covered flight. The term passenger does not include: (1) A crew member who is listed as a crew member on the flight manifest; or (2) An individual with flight deck privileges under 49 CFR 1544.237 traveling on the flight deck. Passenger Resolution Information or PRI means the information that a covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator transmits to TSA for an individual who TSA places in an inhibited status and from whom the covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator is required to request additional information and a Verifying Identity Document. Passenger Resolution Information includes, but is not limited to, the following: (1) Covered aircraft operator's agent identification number or agent sine. (2) Type of Verifying Identity Document presented by the passenger. (3) The identification number on the Verifying Identity Document. (4) Issue date of the Verifying Identity Document. (5) Name of the governmental authority that issued the Verifying Identity Document. (6) Physical attributes of the passenger such as height, eye color, or scars, if requested by TSA. Passport information means the following information from an individual's passport: (1) Passport number. (2) Country of issuance. (3) Expiration date. (4) Gender. (5) Full name. Redress Number means the number assigned by DHS to an individual processed through the redress procedures described in 49 CFR part 1560, subpart C. Secure Flight Passenger Data or ( SFPD ) means information regarding a passenger or non-traveling individual that a covered aircraft operator or covered airport operator transmits to TSA, to the extent available, pursuant to &#xA7; 1560.101. SFPD is the following information regarding a passenger or non-traveling individual: (1) Full name. (2) Date of birth. (3) Gender. (4) Redress number or Known Traveler Number (once implemented). (5) Passport information. (6) Reservation control number. (7) Record sequence number. (8) Record type. (9) Passenger update indicator. (10) Traveler reference number. (11) Itinerary information. Self-service kiosk means a kiosk operated by a covered aircraft operator that is capable of accepting a passenger reservation or a request for authorization to enter a sterile area from a non-traveling individual. Sterile area means &#x201C;sterile area&#x201D; as defined in 49 CFR 1540.5. Terrorist Screening Center or TSC means the entity established by the Attorney General to carry out Homeland Security Presidential Directive 6 (HSPD-6), dated September 16, 2003, to consolidate the Federal government's approach to terrorism screening and provide for the appropriate and lawful use of terrorist information in screening processes. Verifying Identity Document means one of the following documents: (1) An unexpired passport issued by a foreign government. (2) An unexpired document issued by a U.S. Federal, State, or tribal government that includes the following information for the individual: (i) Full name. (ii) Date of birth. (iii) Photograph. (3) Such other documents that TSA may designate as valid verifying identity documents. Watch list refers to the No Fly and Selectee List components of the Terrorist Screening Database maintained by the Terrorist Screening Center. For certain flights, the &#x201C;watch list&#x201D; may include the larger set of watch lists maintained by the Federal government as warranted by security considerations. Subpart B-Collection and Transmission of Secure Flight Passenger Data for Watch List Matching &#xA7; 1560.101 Request for and transmission of information to TSA. (a) Request for information. (1) Each covered aircraft operator must request the full name, gender, date of birth, and Redress Number for passengers on a covered flight and non-traveling individuals seeking access to an airport sterile area. For reservations made 72 hours prior to the scheduled time of departure for each covered flight, the covered aircraft operator must collect full name, gender, and date of birth for each passenger when the reservation is made or at a time no later than 72 hours prior to the scheduled time of departure of the covered flight. For an individual that makes a reservation for a covered flight within 72 hours of the scheduled time of departure for the covered flight, the covered aircraft operator must collect the individual's full name, date of birth, and gender at the time of reservation. The covered aircraft operator must include the information provided by the individual in response to this request in the SFPD. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, each covered aircraft operator must begin requesting the information described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in accordance with its AOIP as approved by TSA. (ii) An aircraft operator that becomes a covered aircraft operator after the effective date of this part must begin requesting the information on the date it becomes a covered aircraft operator. (2) Beginning on a date no later than 30 days after being notified in writing by TSA, each covered aircraft operator must additionally request the Known Traveler Number for passengers on a covered flight and non-traveling individuals seeking access to an airport sterile area. The covered aircraft operator must include the Known Traveler Number provided by the passenger in response to this request in the SFPD. (3) Each covered aircraft operator may not submit SFPD for any passenger on a covered flight who does not provide a full name, date of birth and gender. Each covered aircraft operator may not accept a request for authorization to enter a sterile area from a non-traveling individual who does not provide a full name, date of birth and gender. (4) Each covered aircraft operator must ensure that each third party that accepts a reservation, or accepts a request for authorization to enter a sterile area, on the covered aircraft operator's behalf complies with the requirements of this section. (5) If the covered aircraft operator also has an operation of an aircraft that is subject to 49 CFR 1544.101(b) through (i), the covered aircraft operator may submit SFPD for passengers on these operations for watch list matching under this part, provided that the covered aircraft operator- (i) Collects and transmits the SFPD for the passengers in accordance with this section; (ii) Provides the privacy notice to the passengers in accordance with 49 CFR 1560.103; and (iii) Complies with the requirements of 49 CFR 1560.105 and 1560.107. (b) Transmission of Secure Flight Passenger Data to TSA. Beginning on the date provided in a covered aircraft operator's AOIP, the covered aircraft operator must electronically transmit SFPD to TSA, prior to the scheduled departure of each covered flight, in accordance with its AOIP as approved by TSA. (1) To the extent available, each covered aircraft operator must electronically transmit SFPD to TSA for each passenger on a covered flight. (2) Each covered aircraft operator must transmit SFPD to TSA prior to the scheduled flight departure time, in accordance with its AOIP as approved by TSA. (c) Transmission of non-traveler information to TSA. Beginning on the date provided in a covered aircraft operator's AOIP, the covered aircraft operator must electronically transmit SFPD to TSA for each non-traveling individual, prior to authorizing access to an airport sterile area. (d) Retransmission of information. Each covered aircraft operator must retransmit to TSA updates to the information listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to reflect most recent changes to that information, as specified in its AOIP as approved by TSA. &#xA7; 1560.103 Privacy notice. (a) Electronic collection of information -(1) Current electronic collection of information. Prior to collecting information through a Web site or self-service kiosk from a passenger or non-traveling individual in order to comply with &#xA7; 1560.101(a), a covered aircraft operator must make available the complete privacy notice set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. (2) Other electronic collection of information. If a covered aircraft operator collects information directly from a passenger or non-traveling individual in order to comply with &#xA7; 1560.101(a) through an electronic means not described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the covered aircraft operator must make available the complete privacy notice set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. (3) Third party Web site. Each covered aircraft operator must ensure that each third party that maintains a Web site capable of making a reservation for the covered aircraft operator's reservation system, make available on its Web site the complete privacy notice set forth in paragraph (b) of this section prior to collecting information through the Web site. (b) Privacy notice. The covered aircraft operator may substitute its name for the word &#x201C;us,&#x201D; but the complete privacy notice otherwise must be identical to the following paragraph unless TSA has approved alternative language: The Transportation Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security requires us to collect information from you for purposes of watch list screening, under the authority of 49 U.S.C. section 114, and the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. Providing this information is voluntary; however, if it is not provided, you may be subject to additional screening or denied transport or authorization to enter a sterile area. TSA may share information you provide with law enforcement or intelligence agencies or others under its published system of records notice. For more on TSA Privacy policies, or to view the system of records notice and the privacy impact assessment, please see TSA's Web site at www.tsa.gov. &#xA7; 1560.105 Denial of transport or sterile area access; designation for enhanced screening. (a) Applicability. (1) This section applies to each covered aircraft operator beginning on the date that TSA assumes the watch list matching function for the passengers and non-traveling individuals to whom that covered aircraft operator issues a boarding pass or other authorization to enter a sterile area. TSA will provide prior written notification to the covered aircraft operator no later than 60 days before the date on which it will assume the watch list matching function from that covered aircraft operator. (2) Prior to the date that TSA assumes the watch list matching function from a covered aircraft operator, the covered aircraft operator must comply with existing watch list matching procedures for passengers and non-traveling individuals, including denial of transport or sterile area access or designation for enhanced screening for individuals identified by the covered aircraft operator or TSA. (b) Watch list matching results. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a covered aircraft operator must not issue a boarding pass or other authorization to enter a sterile area to a passenger or a non-traveling individual, and must not allow that individual to board an aircraft or enter a sterile area, until TSA informs the covered aircraft operator of the results of watch list matching for that passenger or non-traveling individual, in response to the covered aircraft operator's most recent SFPD submission for that passenger or non-traveling individual. (1) Denial of boarding pass. If TSA sends a covered aircraft operator a boarding pass printing result that says the passenger or non-traveling individual must be placed on inhibited status, the covered aircraft operator must not issue a boarding pass or other authorization to enter a sterile area to that individual and must not allow that individual to board an aircraft or enter a sterile area. (2) Selection for enhanced screening. If TSA sends a covered aircraft operator a boarding pass printing result that says the passenger has been selected for enhanced screening at a security checkpoint, the covered aircraft operator may issue a boarding pass to that individual and must identify the individual for enhanced screening, in accordance with procedures approved by TSA. The covered aircraft operator must place a code on the boarding pass that meets the requirements described in the Consolidated User Guide. If TSA sends a covered aircraft operator a boarding pass printing result that says the non-traveling individual has been selected for enhanced screening at a security checkpoint, the covered aircraft operator must not issue an authorization to enter a sterile area to that individual. (3) Cleared for boarding or entry into a sterile area. If TSA sends a covered aircraft operator a boarding pass printing result that instructs a covered aircraft operator that a passenger or non-traveling individual is cleared, the covered aircraft operator may issue a boarding pass or other authorization to enter a sterile area to that individual, unless required under another TSA requirement to identify the passenger or non-traveling individual for enhanced screening or to deny entry into the sterile area. The covered aircraft operator must place a code on the boarding pass or authorization to enter the sterile area that meets the requirements described in the Consolidated User Guide. (4) Override by a covered aircraft operator. No covered aircraft operator may override a TSA boarding pass printing result that instructs a covered aircraft operator to place a passenger or non-traveling individual in an inhibited status or to identify a passenger or non-traveling individual for enhanced screening, unless explicitly authorized by TSA to do so. (5) Updated SFPD from covered aircraft operator. When a covered aircraft operator sends updated SFPD to TSA under &#xA7; 1560.101(d) for a passenger or non-traveling individual for whom TSA has already issued a boarding pass printing result, all previous TSA results concerning the passenger or non-traveling individual are voided. The covered aircraft operator may not issue a boarding pass or grant authorization to enter a sterile area until it receives an updated result from TSA authorizing the issuance of a boarding pass or authorization to enter a sterile area. Upon receiving an updated result from TSA, the covered aircraft operator must acknowledge receipt of the updated result, comply with the updated result, and disregard all previous boarding pass printing results. (6) Updated boarding pass printing results from TSA. After TSA sends a covered aircraft operator a result under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section, TSA may receive additional information concerning the passenger or non-traveling individual and may send an updated boarding pass printing result concerning that passenger or non-traveling individual to the covered aircraft operator. Upon receiving an updated boarding pass printing result from TSA, the covered aircraft operator must acknowledge receipt of the updated result, comply with the updated result, and disregard all previous results. (7) Boarding pass issuance for covered flights to or overflying the United States. Covered aircraft operators may permit another aircraft operator to issue a boarding pass for a covered flight departing from a foreign location to the United States or overflying the United States without regard to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section provided that- (i) Before allowing the individual to board the aircraft for a covered flight, the covered aircraft operator confirms that it has received a boarding pass printing result from DHS for individuals who are issued boarding passes under paragraph (b)(7) of this section; (ii) Before allowing the individual to board an aircraft for a covered flight, the covered aircraft operator applies the measures in its security program to prevent an individual for whom DHS has returned an inhibited status boarding pass printing result under paragraph (b)(1) of this section from boarding the aircraft; and (iii) The covered aircraft operator applies the measures in its security program, as provided in 49 CFR part 1544, subpart B or 49 CFR part 1546, subpart B, to ensure that an individual for whom DHS returns a Selectee result under paragraph (b)(2) of this section undergoes enhanced screening pursuant to the covered aircraft operator's security program prior to that individual boarding the aircraft. (c) Request for identification -(1) In general. If TSA has not informed the covered aircraft operator of the results of watch list matching for an individual by the time the individual attempts to check in, or informs the covered aircraft operator that an individual has been placed in inhibited status, the aircraft operator must request from the individual a verifying identity document pursuant to procedures in its security program., as provided in 49 CFR part 1544, subpart B or 49 CFR part 1546, subpart B. The individual must present a verifying identity document to the covered aircraft operator at the airport. (2) Transmission of Updated Secure Flight Passenger Data. Upon reviewing a passenger's verifying identity document, the covered aircraft operator must transmit the SFPD elements from the individual's verifying identity document to TSA. (3) Provision of Passenger Resolution Information. If requested by TSA, the covered aircraft operator must also provide to TSA the individual's Passenger Resolution Information as specified by TSA. (4) Exception for minors. If a covered aircraft operator is required to obtain information from an individual's verifying identity document under this paragraph (c), and the individual is younger than 18 years of age and does not have a verifying identity document, TSA may, on a case-by-case basis, authorize the minor or an adult accompanying the minor to state the individual's full name and date of birth in lieu of providing a verifying identity document. (d) Failure to obtain identification. If a passenger or non-traveling individual does not present a verifying identity document when requested by the covered aircraft operator, in order to comply with paragraph (c) of this section, the covered aircraft operator must not issue a boarding pass or give authorization to enter a sterile area to that individual and must not allow that individual to board an aircraft or enter a sterile area, unless otherwise authorized by TSA. &#xA7; 1560.107 Use of watch list matching results by covered aircraft operators. A covered aircraft operator must not use any watch list matching results provided by TSA for purposes other than those provided in &#xA7; 1560.105 and other security purposes. &#xA7; 1560.109 Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan. (a) Content of the Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP). Each covered aircraft operator must adopt and carry out an AOIP that sets forth the following: (1) The covered aircraft operator's test plan with TSA. (2) When the covered operator will begin to collect and transmit to TSA each data element of the SFPD for each covered flight. (3) The specific means by which the covered aircraft operator will request and transmit information under &#xA7; 1560.101, the timing and frequency of transmission, and any other related matters, in accordance with the Consolidated User Guide. (b) Adoption of Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP). Each covered aircraft operator must adopt an AOIP pursuant to the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b). (1) TSA notifies each covered aircraft operator in writing of a proposed AOIP, fixing a period of not less than 30 days within which the covered aircraft operator may submit written information, views, and arguments on the proposed AOIP. (2) After considering all relevant material, TSA's designated official notifies each covered aircraft operator of its AOIP. The AOIP becomes effective not less than 30 days after the covered aircraft operator receives the notice of its AOIP, unless the covered aircraft operator petitions the Assistant Secretary or designated official to reconsider no later than 15 days before the effective date of the AOIP. The covered aircraft operator must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the AOIP. (3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends the AOIP or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Assistant Secretary or designee for reconsideration. The Assistant Secretary or designee disposes of the petition within 30 days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the AOIP, or by affirming the AOIP. (4) TSA may, at its discretion, grant extensions to any schedule deadlines, on its own initiative or upon the request of a covered aircraft operator. (c) Incorporation into Security Program. Once an AOIP is approved, the AOIP becomes part of the covered aircraft operator's security program as described in 49 CFR part 1544, subpart B, or 49 CFR part 1546, subpart B, as appropriate, and any amendments will be made in accordance with the procedures in those subparts. (d) Handling of Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP). An AOIP contains sensitive security information (SSI) and must be handled and protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520. &#xA7; 1560.111 Covered airport operators. (a) Applicability. This section applies to a covered airport operator that has a program approved by TSA through which the covered airport operator may authorize non-traveling individuals to enter a sterile area. (b) Requirements. A covered airport operator must adopt and carry out an AOIP in accordance with &#xA7; 1560.109. Each covered airport operator must comply with the procedures required of covered aircraft operators in &#xA7;&#xA7; 1560.101(a), (c), and (d), 1560.103, and 1560.107 of this part and any other applicable TSA requirements when authorizing non-traveling individuals to enter a sterile area. Subpart C-Passenger Redress &#xA7; 1560.201 Applicability. This subpart applies to individuals who believe they have been improperly or unfairly delayed or prohibited from boarding an aircraft or entering a sterile area as a result of the Secure Flight program. &#xA7; 1560.203 Representation by counsel. A person may be represented by counsel at his or her own expense during the redress process. &#xA7; 1560.205 Redress process. (a) If an individual believes he or she has been improperly or unfairly delayed or prohibited from boarding an aircraft or entering a sterile area as a result of the Secure Flight program, the individual may seek assistance through the redress process established under this section. (b) An individual may obtain the forms and information necessary to initiate the redress process on the DHS TRIP Web site at http://www.dhs.gov/trip or by contacting the DHS TRIP office by mail. Individuals should send written requests for forms to the DHS TRIP office and include their name and address in the request. DHS will provide the necessary forms and information to individuals through its Web site or by mail. (c) The individual must send to the DHS TRIP office the personal information and copies of the specified identification documents. If TSA needs additional information in order to continue the redress process, TSA will so notify the individual in writing and request that additional information. The DHS TRIP Office will assign the passenger a unique identifier, which TSA will recognize as the Redress Number, and the passenger may use that Redress Number in future correspondence with TSA and when making future travel reservations. (d) TSA, in coordination with the TSC and other appropriate Federal law enforcement or intelligence agencies, if necessary, will review all the documentation and information requested from the individual, correct any erroneous information, and provide the individual with a timely written response. &#xA7; 1560.207 Oversight of process. The redress process and its implementation are subject to review by the TSA and DHS Privacy Offices and the TSA and DHS Offices for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.