PART 1572-CREDENTIALING AND SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS Authority: 46 U.S.C. 70105; 49 U.S.C. 114, 5103a, 40113, and 46105; 18 U.S.C. 842, 845; 6 U.S.C. 469. Source: 72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-Procedures and General Standards &#xA7; 1572.1 Applicability. This part establishes regulations for credentialing and security threat assessments for certain maritime and land transportation workers. &#xA7; 1572.3 Scope. This part applies to- (a) State agencies responsible for issuing a hazardous materials endorsement (HME); and (b) An applicant who- (1) Is qualified to hold a commercial driver's license under 49 CFR parts 383 and 384, and is applying to obtain, renew, or transfer an HME; or (2) Is applying to obtain or renew a TWIC in accordance with 33 CFR parts 104 through 106 or 46 CFR part 10; is a commercial driver licensed in Canada or Mexico and is applying for a TWIC to transport hazardous materials in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.201; or other individuals approved by TSA. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 55048, Sept. 28, 2007] &#xA7; 1572.5 Standards for security threat assessments. (a) Standards. TSA determines that an applicant poses a security threat warranting denial of an HME or TWIC, if- (1) The applicant has a disqualifying criminal offense described in 49 CFR 1572.103; (2) The applicant does not meet the immigration status requirements described in 49 CFR 1572.105; (3) TSA conducts the analyses described in 49 CFR 1572.107 and determines that the applicant poses a security threat; or (4) The applicant has been adjudicated as lacking mental capacity or committed to a mental health facility, as described in 49 CFR 1572.109. (b) Immediate Revocation/Invalidation. TSA may invalidate a TWIC or direct a State to revoke an HME immediately, if TSA determines during the security threat assessment that an applicant poses an immediate threat to transportation security, national security, or of terrorism. (c) Violation of FMCSA Standards. The regulations of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) provide that an applicant is disqualified from operating a commercial motor vehicle for specified periods, if he or she has an offense that is listed in the FMCSA rules at 49 CFR 383.51. If records indicate that an applicant has committed an offense that would disqualify the applicant from operating a commercial motor vehicle under 49 CFR 383.51, TSA will not issue a Determination of No Security Threat until the State or the FMCSA determine that the applicant is not disqualified under that section. (d) Waiver. In accordance with the requirements of &#xA7; 1515.7, applicants may apply for a waiver of certain security threat assessment standards. (e) Comparability of Other Security Threat Assessment Standards. TSA may determine that security threat assessments conducted by other governmental agencies are comparable to the threat assessment described in this part, which TSA conducts for HME and TWIC applicants. (1) In making a comparability determination, TSA will consider- (i) The minimum standards used for the security threat assessment; (ii) The frequency of the threat assessment; (iii) The date of the most recent threat assessment; and (iv) Whether the threat assessment includes biometric identification and a biometric credential. (2) To apply for a comparability determination, the agency seeking the determination must contact the Assistant Program Manager, Attn: Federal Agency Comparability Check, Hazmat Threat Assessment Program, Transportation Security Administration, 601 South 12th Street, Arlington, VA 20598-6019. (3) TSA will notify the public when a comparability determination is made. (4) An applicant, who has completed a security threat assessment that is determined to be comparable under this section to the threat assessment described in this part, must complete the enrollment process and provide biometric information to obtain a TWIC, if the applicant seeks unescorted access to a secure area of a vessel or facility. The applicant must pay the fee listed in 49 CFR 1572.503 for information collection/credential issuance. (5) TSA has determined that the security threat assessment for an HME under this part is comparable to the security threat assessment for TWIC. (6) TSA has determined that the security threat assessment for a FAST card, under the Free and Secure Trade program administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, is comparable to the security threat assessment described in this part. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 77 FR 18717, Mar. 28, 2012] &#xA7; 1572.7 [Reserved] &#xA7; 1572.9 Applicant information required for HME security threat assessment. An applicant must supply the information required in this section, in a form acceptable to TSA, when applying to obtain or renew an HME. When applying to transfer an HME from one State to another, 49 CFR 1572.13(e) applies. (a) Except as provided in (a)(12) through (16), the applicant must provide the following identifying information: (1) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix; and any other name used previously. (2) Current and previous mailing address, current residential address if it differs from the current mailing address, and e-mail address if available. If the applicant prefers to receive correspondence and notification via e-mail, the applicant should so state. (3) Date of birth. (4) Gender. (5) Height, weight, hair color, and eye color. (6) City, state, and country of birth. (7) Immigration status and, if the applicant is a naturalized citizen of the United States, the date of naturalization. (8) Alien registration number, if applicable. (9) The State of application, CDL number, and type of HME(s) held. (10) Name, telephone number, facsimile number, and address of the applicant's current employer(s), if the applicant's work for the employer(s) requires an HME. If the applicant's current employer is the U.S. military service, include branch of the service. (11) Whether the applicant is applying to obtain, renew, or transfer an HME or for a waiver. (12) Social security number. Providing the social security number is voluntary; however, failure to provide it will delay and may prevent completion of the threat assessment. (13) Passport number. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad. (14) Department of State Consular Report of Birth Abroad. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad. (15) Whether the applicant has previously completed a TSA threat assessment, and if so the date and program for which it was completed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a TSA security threat assessment. (16) Whether the applicant currently holds a federal security clearance, and if so, the date of and agency for which the clearance was performed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a federal security threat assessment. (b) The applicant must provide a statement, signature, and date of signature that he or she- (1) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, during the seven years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver; (2) Was not released from incarceration, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for committing a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), during the five years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver; (3) Is not wanted, or under indictment, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103, or is applying for a waiver; (4) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103(a), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, or is applying for a waiver; (5) Has not been adjudicated as lacking mental capacity or committed to a mental health facility involuntarily or is applying for a waiver; (6) Meets the immigration status requirements described in 49 CFR 1572.105; (7) Has or has not served in the military, and if so, the branch in which he or she served, the date of discharge, and the type of discharge; and (8) Has been informed that Federal regulations, under 49 CFR 1572.11, impose a continuing obligation on the HME holder to disclose to the State if he or she is convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime, adjudicated as lacking mental capacity, or committed to a mental health facility. (c) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement: Privacy Act Notice: Authority: The authority for collecting this information is 49 U.S.C. 114, 40113, and 5103a. Purpose: This information is needed to verify your identity and to conduct a security threat assessment to evaluate your suitability for a hazardous materials endorsement for a commercial driver's license. Furnishing this information, including your SSN or alien registration number, is voluntary; however, failure to provide it will delay and may prevent completion of your security threat assessment. Routine Uses: Routine uses of this information include disclosure to the FBI to retrieve your criminal history record; to TSA contractors or other agents who are providing services relating to the security threat assessments; to appropriate governmental agencies for licensing, law enforcement, or security purposes, or in the interests of national security; and to foreign and international governmental authorities in accordance with law and international agreement. (d) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement, immediately before the signature line: The information I have provided on this application is true, complete, and correct, to the best of my knowledge and belief, and is provided in good faith. I understand that a knowing and willful false statement, or an omission of a material fact on this application can be punished by fine or imprisonment or both ( See section 1001 of Title 18 United States Code), and may be grounds for denial of a hazardous materials endorsement. (e) The applicant must certify the following statement in writing: I acknowledge that if the Transportation Security Administration determines that I pose a security threat, my employer, as listed on this application, may be notified. If TSA or other law enforcement agency becomes aware of an imminent threat to a maritime facility or vessel, TSA may provide limited information necessary to reduce the risk of injury or damage to the facility or vessel. &#xA7; 1572.11 Applicant responsibilities for HME security threat assessment. (a) Surrender of HME. If an individual is disqualified from holding an HME under 49 CFR 1572.5(c), he or she must surrender the HME to the licensing State. Failure to surrender the HME to the State may result in immediate revocation under 49 CFR 1572.13(a) and/or civil penalties. (b) Continuing responsibilities. An individual who holds an HME must surrender the HME as required in paragraph (a) of this section within 24 hours, if the individual- (1) Is convicted of, wanted, under indictment or complaint, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103; or (2) Is adjudicated as lacking mental capacity, or committed to a mental health facility, as described in 49 CFR 1572.109; or (3) Renounces or loses U.S. citizenship or status as a lawful permanent resident; or (4) Violates his or her immigration status, and/or is ordered removed from the United States. (c) Submission of fingerprints and information. (1) An HME applicant must submit fingerprints and the information required in 49 CFR 1572.9, in a form acceptable to TSA, when so notified by the State, or when the applicant applies to obtain or renew an HME. The procedures outlined in 49 CFR 1572.13(e) apply to HME transfers. (2) When submitting fingerprints and the information required in 49 CFR 1572.9, the fee described in 49 CFR 1572.503 must be remitted to TSA. &#xA7; 1572.13 State responsibilities for issuance of hazardous materials endorsement. Each State must revoke an individual's HME immediately, if TSA informs the State that the individual does not meet the standards for security threat assessment in 49 CFR 1572.5 and issues an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation. (a) No State may issue or renew an HME for a CDL, unless the State receives a Determination of No Security Threat from TSA. (b) Each State must notify each individual holding an HME issued by that State that he or she will be subject to the security threat assessment described in this part as part of an application for renewal of the HME, at least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the individual's HME. The notice must inform the individual that he or she may initiate the security threat assessment required by this section at any time after receiving the notice, but no later than 60 days before the expiration date of the individual's HME. (c) The State that issued an HME may extend the expiration date of the HME for 90 days, if TSA has not provided a Determination of No Security Threat or a Final Determination of Threat Assessment before the expiration date. Any additional extension must be approved in advance by TSA. (d) Within 15 days of receipt of a Determination of No Security Threat or Final Determination of Threat Assessment from TSA, the State must- (1) Update the applicant's permanent record to reflect: (i) The results of the security threat assessment; (ii) The issuance or denial of an HME; and (iii) The new expiration date of the HME. (2) Notify the Commercial Drivers License Information System (CDLIS) operator of the results of the security threat assessment. (3) Revoke or deny the applicant's HME if TSA serves the State with a Final Determination of Threat Assessment. (e) For applicants who apply to transfer an existing HME from one State to another, the second State will not require the applicant to undergo a new security threat assessment until the security threat assessment renewal period established in the preceding issuing State, not to exceed five years, expires. (f) A State that is not using TSA's agent to conduct enrollment for the security threat assessment must retain the application and information required in 49 CFR 1572.9, for at least one year, in paper or electronic form. &#xA7; 1572.15 Procedures for HME security threat assessment. (a) Contents of security threat assessment. The security threat assessment TSA completes includes a fingerprint-based criminal history records check (CHRC), an intelligence-related background check, and a final disposition. (b) Fingerprint-based check. In order to conduct a fingerprint-based CHRC, the following procedures must be completed: (1) The State notifies the applicant that he or she will be subject to the security threat assessment at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the applicant's HME, and that the applicant must begin the security threat assessment no later than 30 days before the date of the expiration of the HME. (2) Where the State elects to collect fingerprints and applicant information, the State- (i) Collects fingerprints and applicant information required in 49 CFR 1572.9; (ii) Provides the applicant information to TSA electronically, unless otherwise authorized by TSA; (iii) Transmits the fingerprints to the FBI/Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS), in accordance with the FBI/CJIS fingerprint submission standards; and (iv) Retains the signed application, in paper or electronic form, for one year and provides it to TSA, if requested. (3) Where the State elects to have a TSA agent collect fingerprints and applicant information- (i) TSA provides a copy of the signed application to the State; (ii) The State retains the signed application, in paper or electronic form, for one year and provides it to TSA, if requested; and (iii) TSA transmits the fingerprints to the FBI/CJIS, in accordance with the FBI/CJIS fingerprint submission standards. (4) TSA receives the results from the FBI/CJIS and adjudicates the results of the check, in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.103 and, if applicable, 49 CFR 1572.107. (c) Intelligence-related check. To conduct an intelligence-related check, TSA completes the following procedures: (1) Reviews the applicant information required in 49 CFR 1572.9. (2) Searches domestic and international Government databases described in 49 CFR 1572.105, 1572.107, and 1572.109. (3) Adjudicates the results of the check in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.103, 1572.105, 1572.107, and 1572.109. (d) Final disposition. Following completion of the procedures described in paragraphs (b) and/or (c) of this section, the following procedures apply, as appropriate: (1) TSA serves a Determination of No Security Threat on the State in which the applicant is authorized to hold an HME, if TSA determines that an applicant meets the security threat assessment standards described in 49 CFR 1572.5. (2) TSA serves an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment on the applicant, if TSA determines that the applicant does not meet the security threat assessment standards described in 49 CFR 1572.5. The Initial Determination of Threat Assessment includes- (i) A statement that TSA has determined that the applicant poses a security threat warranting denial of the HME; (ii) The basis for the determination; (iii) Information about how the applicant may appeal the determination, as described in 49 CFR 1515.5 or 1515.9, as applicable; and (iv) A statement that if the applicant chooses not to appeal TSA's determination within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination, or does not request an extension of time within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination in order to file an appeal, the Initial Determination becomes a Final Determination of Security Threat Assessment. (3) TSA serves an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation on the applicant, the applicant's employer where appropriate, and the State, if TSA determines that the applicant does not meet the security threat assessment standards described in 49 CFR 1572.5 and may pose an imminent threat to transportation or national security, or of terrorism. The Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation includes- (i) A statement that TSA has determined that the applicant poses a security threat warranting immediate revocation of an HME; (ii) The basis for the determination; (iii) Information about how the applicant may appeal the determination, as described in 49 CFR 1515.5(h) or 1515.9(f), as applicable; and (iv) A statement that if the applicant chooses not to appeal TSA's determination within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination and Immediate Revocation, the Initial Determination and Immediate Revocation becomes a Final Determination of Threat Assessment. (4) If the applicant does not appeal the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment or Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the State in which the applicant applied for the HME, the applicant's employer where appropriate, and on the applicant, if the appeal of the Initial Determination results in a finding that the applicant poses a security threat. (5) If the applicant appeals the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment or the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation, the procedures in 49 CFR 1515.5 or 1515.9 apply. (6) Applicants who do not meet certain standards in 49 CFR 1572.103, 1572.105, or 1572.109 may seek a waiver in accordance with 49 CFR 1515.7. &#xA7; 1572.17 Applicant information required for TWIC security threat assessment. An applicant must supply the information required in this section, in a form acceptable to TSA, when applying to obtain or renew a TWIC. (a) Except as provided in (a)(12) through (16), the applicant must provide the following identifying information: (1) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix; and any other name used previously. (2) Current and previous mailing address, current residential address if it differs from the current mailing address, and e-mail address if available. If the applicant wishes to receive notification that the TWIC is ready to be retrieved from the enrollment center via telephone rather than e-mail address, the applicant should state this and provide the correct telephone number. (3) Date of birth. (4) Gender. (5) Height, weight, hair color, and eye color. (6) City, state, and country of birth. (7) Immigration status, and (i) If the applicant is a naturalized citizen of the United States, the date of naturalization; (ii) If the applicant is present in the United States based on a Visa, the type of Visa, the Visa number, and the date on which it expires; and (iii) If the applicant is a commercial driver licensed in Canada and does not hold a FAST card, a Canadian passport. (8) If not a national or citizen of the United States, the alien registration number and/or the number assigned to the applicant on the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Arrival-Departure Record, Form I-94. (9) Except as described in paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section, the reason that the applicant requires a TWIC, including, as applicable, the applicant's job description and the primary facility, vessel, or maritime port location(s) where the applicant will most likely require unescorted access, if known. This statement does not limit access to other facilities, vessels, or ports, but establishes eligibility for a TWIC. (i) Applicants who are commercial drivers licensed in Canada or Mexico who are applying for a TWIC in order to transport hazardous materials in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.201 and not to access secure areas of a facility or vessel, must explain this in response to the information requested in paragraph (a)(9) of this section. (10) The name, telephone number, and address of the applicant's current employer(s), if working for the employer requires a TWIC. If the applicant's current employer is the U.S. military service, include the branch of the service. An applicant whose current employer does not require possession of a TWIC, does not have a single employer, or is self-employed, must provide the primary vessel or port location(s) where the applicant requires unescorted access, if known. This statement does not limit access to other facilities, vessels, or ports, but establishes eligibility for a TWIC. (11) If a credentialed mariner or applying to become a credentialed mariner, proof of citizenship as required in 46 CFR chapter I, subchapter B. (12) Social security number. Providing the social security number is voluntary; however, failure to provide it will delay and may prevent completion of the threat assessment. (13) Passport number, city of issuance, date of issuance, and date of expiration. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad. (14) Department of State Consular Report of Birth Abroad. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad. (15) Whether the applicant has previously completed a TSA threat assessment, and if so the date and program for which it was completed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a TSA security threat assessment. (16) Whether the applicant currently holds a federal security clearance, and if so, the date of and agency for which the clearance was performed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a federal security threat assessment. (b) The applicant must provide a statement, signature, and date of signature that he or she- (1) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, during the seven years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver; (2) Was not released from incarceration, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for committing a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), during the five years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver; (3) Is not wanted, or under indictment, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103, or is applying for a waiver; (4) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103(a), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, or is applying for a waiver; (5) Has not been adjudicated as lacking mental capacity, or committed to a mental health facility involuntarily, or is applying for a waiver; (6) Meets the immigration status requirements described in 49 CFR 1572.105; (7) Has, or has not, served in the military, and if so, the branch in which he or she served, the date of discharge, and the type of discharge; and (8) Has been informed that Federal regulations under 49 CFR 1572.19 impose a continuing obligation on the TWIC holder to disclose to TSA if he or she is convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime, adjudicated as lacking mental capacity, or committed to a mental health facility. (c) Applicants, applying to obtain or renew a TWIC, must submit biometric information to be used for identity verification purposes. If an individual cannot provide the selected biometric, TSA will collect an alternative biometric identifier. (d) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement: Privacy Act Notice: Authority: The authority for collecting this information is 49 U.S.C. 114, 40113, and 5103a. Purpose: This information is needed to verify your identity and to conduct a security threat assessment to evaluate your suitability for a Transportation Worker Identification Credential. Furnishing this information, including your SSN or alien registration number, is voluntary; however, failure to provide it will delay and may prevent completion of your security threat assessment. Routine Uses: Routine uses of this information include disclosure to the FBI to retrieve your criminal history record; to TSA contractors or other agents who are providing services relating to the security threat assessments; to appropriate governmental agencies for licensing, law enforcement, or security purposes, or in the interests of national security; and to foreign and international governmental authorities in accordance with law and international agreement. (e) The applicant must certify the following statement in writing: As part of my employment duties, I am required to have unescorted access to secure areas of maritime facilities or vessels in which a Transportation Worker Identification Credential is required; I am now, or I am applying to be, a credentialed merchant mariner; or I am a commercial driver licensed in Canada or Mexico transporting hazardous materials in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.201. (f) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement, immediately before the signature line: The information I have provided on this application is true, complete, and correct, to the best of my knowledge and belief, and is provided in good faith. I understand that a knowing and willful false statement, or an omission of a material fact on this application, can be punished by fine or imprisonment or both (see section 1001 of Title 18 United States Code), and may be grounds for denial of a Transportation Worker Identification Credential. (g) The applicant must certify the following statement in writing: I acknowledge that if the Transportation Security Administration determines that I pose a security threat, my employer, as listed on this application, may be notified. If TSA or other law enforcement agency becomes aware of an imminent threat to a maritime facility or vessel, TSA may provide limited information necessary to reduce the risk of injury or damage to the facility or vessel. &#xA7; 1572.19 Applicant responsibilities for a TWIC security threat assessment. (a) Implementation schedule. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, applicants must provide the information required in 49 CFR 1572.17, when so directed by the owner/operator. (b) Implementation schedule for certain mariners. An applicant, who holds a Merchant Mariner Document (MMD) issued after February 3, 2003, and before April 15, 2009, or a Merchant Marine License (License) issued after January 13, 2006, and before April 15, 2009, must submit the information required in this section, but is not required to undergo the security threat assessment described in this part. (c) Surrender of TWIC. The TWIC is property of the Transportation Security Administration. If an individual is disqualified from holding a TWIC under 49 CFR 1572.5, he or she must surrender the TWIC to TSA. Failure to surrender the TWIC to TSA may result in immediate revocation under 49 CFR 1572.5(b) and/or civil penalties. (d) Continuing responsibilities. An individual who holds a TWIC must surrender the TWIC, as required in paragraph (a) of this section, within 24 hours if the individual- (1) Is convicted of, wanted, under indictment or complaint, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103; or (2) Is adjudicated as lacking mental capacity or committed to a mental health facility, as described in 49 CFR 1572.109; or (3) Renounces or loses U.S. citizenship or status as a lawful permanent resident; or (4) Violates his or her immigration status and/or is ordered removed from the United States. (e) Submission of fingerprints and information. (1) TWIC applicants must submit fingerprints and the information required in 49 CFR 1572.17, in a form acceptable to TSA, to obtain or renew a TWIC. (2) When submitting fingerprints and the information required in 49 CFR 1572.17, the fee required in 49 CFR 1572.503 must be remitted to TSA. (f) Lost, damaged, or stolen credentials. If an individual's TWIC is damaged, or if a TWIC holder loses possession of his or her credential, he or she must notify TSA immediately. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 55048, Sept. 28, 2007; 73 FR 25566, May 7, 2008] &#xA7; 1572.21 Procedures for TWIC security threat assessment. (a) Contents of security threat assessment. The security threat assessment TSA conducts includes a fingerprint-based criminal history records check (CHRC), an intelligence-related check, and a final disposition. (b) Fingerprint-based check. The following procedures must be completed to conduct a fingerprint-based CHRC: (1) Consistent with the implementation schedule described in 49 CFR 1572.19(a) and (b), and as required in 33 CFR 104.200, 105.200, or 106.200, applicants are notified. (2) During enrollment, TSA- (i) Collects fingerprints, applicant information, and the fee required in 49 CFR 1572.17; (ii) Transmits the fingerprints to the FBI/CJIS in accordance with the FBI/CJIS fingerprint submission standards. (iii) Receives and adjudicates the results of the check from FBI/CJIS, in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.103 and, if applicable, 49 CFR 1572.107. (c) Intelligence-related check. To conduct an intelligence-related check, TSA completes the following procedures: (1) Reviews the applicant information required in 49 CFR 1572.17; (2) Searches domestic and international Government databases required to determine if the applicant meets the requirements of 49 CFR 1572.105, 1572.107, and 1572.109; (3) Adjudicates the results of the check in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.103, 1572.105, 1572.107, and 1572.109. (d) Final disposition. Following completion of the procedures described in paragraphs (b) and/or (c) of this section, the following procedures apply, as appropriate: (1) TSA serves a Determination of No Security Threat on the applicant if TSA determines that the applicant meets the security threat assessment standards described in 49 CFR 1572.5. In the case of a mariner, TSA also serves a Determination of No Security Threat on the Coast Guard. (2) TSA serves an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment on the applicant if TSA determines that the applicant does not meet the security threat assessment standards described in 49 CFR 1572.5. The Initial Determination of Threat Assessment includes- (i) A statement that TSA has determined that the applicant poses a security threat warranting denial of the TWIC; (ii) The basis for the determination; (iii) Information about how the applicant may appeal the determination, as described in 49 CFR 1515.5 or 1515.9, as applicable; and (iv) A statement that if the applicant chooses not to appeal TSA's determination within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination, or does not request an extension of time within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination in order to file an appeal, the Initial Determination becomes a Final Determination of Security Threat Assessment. (3) TSA serves an Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation on the applicant, the applicant's employer where appropriate, the FMSC, and in the case of a mariner applying for a TWIC, on the Coast Guard, if TSA determines that the applicant does not meet the security threat assessment standards described in 49 CFR 1572.5 and may pose an imminent security threat. The Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation includes- (i) A statement that TSA has determined that the applicant poses a security threat warranting immediate revocation of a TWIC and unescorted access to secure areas; (ii) The basis for the determination; (iii) Information about how the applicant may appeal the determination, as described in 49 CFR 1515.5(h) or 1515.9(f), as applicable; and (iv) A statement that if the applicant chooses not to appeal TSA's determination within 60 days of receipt of the Initial Determination and Immediate Revocation, the Initial Determination and Immediate Revocation becomes a Final Determination of Threat Assessment. (4) If the applicant does not appeal the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment or Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the FMSC and in the case of a mariner, on the Coast Guard, and the applicant's employer where appropriate. (5) If the applicant appeals the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment or the Initial Determination of Threat Assessment and Immediate Revocation, the procedures in 49 CFR 1515.5 or 1515.9 apply. (6) Applicants who do not meet certain standards in 49 CFR 1572.103, 1572.105, or 1572.109 may seek a waiver in accordance with 49 CFR 1515.7. &#xA7; 1572.23 TWIC expiration. (a) A TWIC expires five years after the date it was issued at the end of the calendar day, except as follows: (1) The TWIC was issued based on a determination that the applicant completed a comparable threat assessment. If issued pursuant to a comparable threat assessment, the TWIC expires five years from the date on the credential associated with the comparable threat assessment. (2) The applicant is in a lawful nonimmigrant status category listed in 1572.105(a)(7), and the status expires, the employer terminates the employment relationship with the applicant, or the applicant otherwise ceases working for the employer. Under any of these circumstances, TSA deems the TWIC to have expired regardless of the expiration date on the face of the TWIC. (b) TSA may issue a TWIC for a term less than five years to match the expiration of a visa. &#xA7;&#xA7; 1572.24-1572.40 [Reserved] Subpart B-Standards for Security Threat Assessments &#xA7; 1572.101 Scope. This subpart applies to applicants who hold or are applying to obtain or renew an HME or TWIC, or transfer an HME. Applicants for an HME also are subject to safety requirements issued by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration under 49 CFR part 383 and by the State issuing the HME, including additional immigration status and criminal history standards. &#xA7; 1572.103 Disqualifying criminal offenses. (a) Permanent disqualifying criminal offenses. An applicant has a permanent disqualifying offense if convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in a civilian or military jurisdiction of any of the following felonies: (1) Espionage or conspiracy to commit espionage. (2) Sedition, or conspiracy to commit sedition. (3) Treason, or conspiracy to commit treason. (4) A federal crime of terrorism as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2332b(g), or comparable State law, or conspiracy to commit such crime. (5) A crime involving a transportation security incident. A transportation security incident is a security incident resulting in a significant loss of life, environmental damage, transportation system disruption, or economic disruption in a particular area, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 70101. The term &#x201C;economic disruption&#x201D; does not include a work stoppage or other employee-related action not related to terrorism and resulting from an employer-employee dispute. (6) Improper transportation of a hazardous material under 49 U.S.C. 5124, or a State law that is comparable. (7) Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, manufacture, purchase, receipt, transfer, shipping, transporting, import, export, storage of, or dealing in an explosive or explosive device. An explosive or explosive device includes, but is not limited to, an explosive or explosive material as defined in 18 U.S.C. 232(5), 841(c) through 841(f), and 844(j); and a destructive device, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4) and 26 U.S.C. 5845(f). (8) Murder. (9) Making any threat, or maliciously conveying false information knowing the same to be false, concerning the deliverance, placement, or detonation of an explosive or other lethal device in or against a place of public use, a state or government facility, a public transportations system, or an infrastructure facility. (10) Violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. 1961, et seq., or a comparable State law, where one of the predicate acts found by a jury or admitted by the defendant, consists of one of the crimes listed in paragraph (a) of this section. (11) Attempt to commit the crimes in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4). (12) Conspiracy or attempt to commit the crimes in paragraphs (a)(5) through (a)(10). (b) Interim disqualifying criminal offenses. (1) The felonies listed in paragraphs (b)(2) of this section are disqualifying, if either: (i) the applicant was convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of the crime in a civilian or military jurisdiction, within seven years of the date of the application; or (ii) the applicant was incarcerated for that crime and released from incarceration within five years of the date of the TWIC application. (2) The interim disqualifying felonies are: (i) Unlawful possession, use, sale, manufacture, purchase, distribution, receipt, transfer, shipping, transporting, delivery, import, export of, or dealing in a firearm or other weapon. A firearm or other weapon includes, but is not limited to, firearms as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(3) or 26 U.S.C. 5 845(a), or items contained on the U.S. Munitions Import List at 27 CFR 447.21. (ii) Extortion. (iii) Dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation, including identity fraud and money laundering where the money laundering is related to a crime described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. Welfare fraud and passing bad checks do not constitute dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation for purposes of this paragraph. (iv) Bribery. (v) Smuggling. (vi) Immigration violations. (vii) Distribution of, possession with intent to distribute, or importation of a controlled substance. (viii) Arson. (ix) Kidnapping or hostage taking. (x) Rape or aggravated sexual abuse. (xi) Assault with intent to kill. (xii) Robbery. (xiii) Fraudulent entry into a seaport as described in 18 U.S.C. 1036, or a comparable State law. (xiv) Violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. 1961, et seq., or a comparable State law, other than the violations listed in paragraph (a)(10) of this section. (xv) Conspiracy or attempt to commit the crimes in this paragraph (b). (c) Under want, warrant, or indictment. An applicant who is wanted, or under indictment in any civilian or military jurisdiction for a felony listed in this section, is disqualified until the want or warrant is released or the indictment is dismissed. (d) Determination of arrest status. (1) When a fingerprint-based check discloses an arrest for a disqualifying crime listed in this section without indicating a disposition, TSA will so notify the applicant and provide instructions on how the applicant must clear the disposition, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (2) The applicant must provide TSA with written proof that the arrest did not result in conviction for the disqualifying criminal offense, within 60 days after the service date of the notification in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If TSA does not receive proof in that time, TSA will notify the applicant that he or she is disqualified. In the case of an HME, TSA will notify the State that the applicant is disqualified, and in the case of a mariner applying for TWIC, TSA will notify the Coast Guard that the applicant is disqualified. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007; 72 FR 5633, Feb. 7, 2007; 72 FR 14050, Mar. 26, 2007] &#xA7; 1572.105 Immigration status. (a) An individual applying for a security threat assessment for a TWIC or HME must be a national of the United States or- (1) A lawful permanent resident of the United States; (2) A refugee admitted under 8 U.S.C. 1157; (3) An alien granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158; (4) An alien in valid M-1 nonimmigrant status who is enrolled in the United States Merchant Marine Academy or a comparable State maritime academy. Such individuals may serve as unlicensed mariners on a documented vessel, regardless of their nationality, under 46 U.S.C. 8103. (5) A nonimmigrant alien admitted under the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia, the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the United States and Palau. (6) An alien in lawful nonimmigrant status who has unrestricted authorization to work in the United States, except- (i) An alien in valid S-5 (informant of criminal organization information) lawful nonimmigrant status; (ii) An alien in valid S-6 (informant of terrorism information) lawful nonimmigrant status; (iii) An alien in valid K-1 (Fianco(e)) lawful nonimmigrant status; or (iv) An alien in valid K-2 (Minor child of Fianco(e)) lawful nonimmigrant status. (7) An alien in the following lawful nonimmigrant status who has restricted authorization to work in the United States- (i) B1/OCS Business Visitor/Outer Continental Shelf; (ii) C-1/D Crewman Visa; (iii) H-1B Special Occupations; (iv) H-1B1 Free Trade Agreement; (v) E-1 Treaty Trader; (vi) E-3 Australian in Specialty Occupation; (vii) L-1 Intracompany Executive Transfer; (viii) O-1 Extraordinary Ability; (ix) TN North American Free Trade Agreement; (x) E-2 Treaty Investor; or (xi) Another authorization that confers legal status, when TSA determines that the legal status is comparable to the legal status set out in paragraph (a)(7) of this section. (8) A commercial driver licensed in Canada or Mexico who is admitted to the United States under 8 CFR 214.2(b)(4)(i)(E) to conduct business in the United States. (b) Upon expiration of a nonimmigrant status listed in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, an employer must retrieve the TWIC from the applicant and provide it to TSA. (c) Upon expiration of a nonimmigrant status listed in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, an employee must surrender his or her TWIC to the employer. (d) If an employer terminates an applicant working under a nonimmigrant status listed in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, or the applicant otherwise ceases working for the employer, the employer must notify TSA within 5 business days and provide the TWIC to TSA if possible. (e) Any individual in removal proceedings or subject to an order of removal under the immigration laws of the United States is not eligible to apply for a TWIC. (f) To determine an applicant's immigration status, TSA will check relevant Federal databases and may perform other checks, including the validity of the applicant's alien registration number, social security number, or I-94 Arrival-Departure Form number. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 55049, Sept. 28, 2007; 73 FR 13156, Mar. 12, 2008] &#xA7; 1572.107 Other analyses. (a) TSA may determine that an applicant poses a security threat based on a search of the following databases: (1) Interpol and other international databases, as appropriate. (2) Terrorist watchlists and related databases. (3) Any other databases relevant to determining whether an applicant poses, or is suspected of posing, a security threat, or that confirm an applicant's identity. (b) TSA may also determine that an applicant poses a security threat, if the search conducted under this part reveals extensive foreign or domestic criminal convictions, a conviction for a serious crime not listed in 49 CFR 1572.103, or a period of foreign or domestic imprisonment that exceeds 365 consecutive days. &#xA7; 1572.109 Mental capacity. (a) An applicant has mental incapacity, if he or she has been- (1) Adjudicated as lacking mental capacity; or (2) Committed to a mental health facility. (b) An applicant is adjudicated as lacking mental capacity if- (1) A court, board, commission, or other lawful authority has determined that the applicant, as a result of marked subnormal intelligence, mental illness, incompetence, condition, or disease, is a danger to himself or herself or to others, or lacks the mental capacity to conduct or manage his or her own affairs. (2) This includes a finding of insanity by a court in a criminal case and a finding of incompetence to stand trial; or a finding of not guilty by reason of lack of mental responsibility, by any court, or pursuant to articles 50a and 76b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 U.S.C. 850a and 876b). (c) An applicant is committed to a mental health facility if he or she is formally committed to a mental health facility by a court, board, commission, or other lawful authority, including involuntary commitment and commitment for lacking mental capacity, mental illness, and drug use. This does not include commitment to a mental health facility for observation or voluntary admission to a mental health facility. &#xA7;&#xA7; 1572.111-1572.139 [Reserved] Subpart C-Transportation of Hazardous Materials From Canada or Mexico To and Within the United States by Land Modes &#xA7; 1572.201 Transportation of hazardous materials via commercial motor vehicle from Canada or Mexico to and within the United States. (a) Applicability. This section applies to commercial motor vehicle drivers licensed by Canada and Mexico. (b) Terms used in this section. The terms used in 49 CFR parts 1500, 1570, and 1572 also apply in this subpart. In addition, the following terms are used in this subpart for purposes of this section: FAST means Free and Secure Trade program of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), a cooperative effort between CBP and the governments of Canada and Mexico to coordinate processes for the clearance of commercial shipments at the border. Hazardous materials means material that has been designated as hazardous under 49 U.S.C. 5103 and is required to be placarded under subpart F of 49 CFR part 172 or any quantity of material that listed as a select agent or toxin in 42 CFR part 73. (c) Background check required. A commercial motor vehicle driver who is licensed by Canada or Mexico may not transport hazardous materials into or within the United States unless the driver has undergone a background check similar to the one required of U.S.-licensed operators with a hazardous materials endorsement (HME) on a commercial driver's license, as prescribed in 49 CFR 1572.5. (d) FAST card. A commercial motor vehicle driver who holds a current Free and Secure Trade (FAST) program card satisfies the requirements of this section. Commercial motor vehicle drivers who wish to apply for a FAST program card must contact the FAST Commercial Driver Program, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Department of Homeland Security. (e) TWIC. A commercial motor vehicle driver who holds a TWIC satisfies the requirements of this section. Commercial vehicle drivers who wish to apply for a TWIC must comply with the rules in 49 CFR part 1572. &#xA7; 1572.203 Transportation of explosives from Canada to the United States via railroad carrier. (a) Applicability. This section applies to railroad carriers that carry explosives from Canada to the United States, using a train crew member who is not a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident alien of the United States. (b) Terms under this section. For purposes of this section: Customs and Border Protection (CBP) means the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, an agency within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Explosive means a material that has been examined by the Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety, Research and Special Programs Administration, in accordance with 49 CFR 173.56, and determined to meet the definition for a Class 1 material in 49 CFR 173.50. Known railroad carrier means a person that has been determined by the Governments of Canada and the United States to be a legitimate business, operating in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations governing the transportation of explosives. Known offeror means an offeror that has been determined by the Governments of Canada and the United States to be a legitimate business, operating in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations governing the transportation of explosives. Known train crew member means an individual used to transport explosives from Canada to the United States, who has been determined by the Governments of Canada and the United States to present no known security concern. Lawful permanent resident alien means an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20). Offeror means the person offering a shipment to the railroad carrier for transportation from Canada to the United States, and may also be known as the &#x201C;consignor&#x201D; in Canada. Railroad carrier means &#x201C;railroad carrier&#x201D; as defined in 49 U.S.C. 20102. (c) Prior approval of railroad carrier, offeror, and train crew member. (1) No railroad carrier may transport in commerce any explosive into the United States from Canada, via a train operated by a crew member who is not a U.S. national or lawful permanent resident alien, unless the railroad carrier, offeror, and train crew member are identified on a TSA list as a known railroad carrier, known offeror, and known train crew member, respectively. (2) The railroad carrier must ensure that it, its offeror, and each of its crew members have been determined to be a known railroad carrier, known offeror, and known train crew member, respectively. If any has not been so determined, the railroad carrier must submit the following information to Transport Canada: (i) The railroad carrier's identification, including- (A) Official name; (B) Business number; (C) Any trade names; and (D) Address. (ii) The following information about any offeror of explosives whose shipments it will carry: (A) Official name. (B) Business number. (C) Address. (iii) The following information about any train crew member the railroad carrier may use to transport explosives into the United States from Canada, who is neither a U.S. national nor lawful permanent resident alien: (A) Full name. (B) Both current and most recent prior residential addresses. (3) Transport Canada will determine whether the railroad carrier and offeror are legitimately doing business in Canada and will also determine whether the train crew members present no known problems for purposes of this section. Transport Canada will notify TSA of these determinations by forwarding to TSA lists of known railroad carriers, offerors, and train crew members and their identifying information. (4) TSA will update and maintain the list of known railroad carriers, offerors, and train crew members and forward the list to CBP. (5) Once included on the list, the railroad carriers, offerors, and train crew members need not obtain prior approval for future transport of explosives under this section. (d) TSA checks. TSA may periodically check the data on the railroad carriers, offerors, and train crew members to confirm their continued eligibility, and may remove from the list any that TSA determines is not known or is a threat to security. (e) At the border. (1) Train crew members who are not U.S. nationals or lawful permanent resident aliens. Upon arrival at a point designated by CBP for inspection of trains crossing into the United States, the train crew members of a train transporting explosives must provide sufficient identification to CBP to enable that agency to determine if each crew member is on the list of known train crew members maintained by TSA. (2) Train crew members who are U.S. nationals or lawful permanent resident aliens. If CBP cannot verify that the crew member is on the list and the crew member is a U.S. national or lawful permanent resident alien, the crew member may be cleared by CBP upon providing- (i) A valid U.S. passport; or (ii) One or more other document(s), including a form of U.S. Federal or state Government-issued identification with photograph, acceptable to CBP. (3) Compliance. If a carrier attempts to enter the U.S. without having complied with this section, CBP will deny entry of the explosives and may take other appropriate action. Subpart D [Reserved] Subpart E-Fees for Security Threat Assessments for Hazmat Drivers &#xA7; 1572.400 Scope and definitions. (a) Scope. This part applies to- (1) States that issue an HME for a commercial driver's license; (2) Individuals who apply to obtain or renew an HME for a commercial driver's license and must undergo a security threat assessment under 49 CFR part 1572; and (3) Entities who collect fees from such individuals on behalf of TSA. (b) Terms. As used in this part: Commercial driver's license (CDL) is used as defined in 49 CFR 383.5. FBI Fee means the fee required for the cost of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to process fingerprint records. Information Collection Fee means the fee required, in this part, for the cost of collecting and transmitting fingerprints and other applicant information under 49 CFR part 1572. Threat Assessment Fee means the fee required, in this part, for the cost of TSA adjudicating security threat assessments, appeals, and waivers under 49 CFR part 1572. TSA agent means an entity approved by TSA to collect and transmit fingerprints and applicant information, in accordance with 49 CFR part 1572, and fees in accordance with this part. [85 FR 16499, Mar. 23, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 35631, May 1, 2024] &#xA7; 1572.401 Fee collection options. (a) State collection and transmission. If a State collects fingerprints and applicant information under 49 CFR part 1572, the State must collect and transmit to TSA the Threat Assessment Fee, in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 1572.403. The State also must collect and remit the FBI fee, in accordance with established procedures. (b) TSA agent collection and transmission. If a TSA agent collects fingerprints and applicant information under 49 CFR part 1572, the agent must- (1) Collect the Information Collection Fee, Threat Assessment Fee, and FBI Fee, in accordance with procedures approved by TSA; (2) Transmit to TSA the Threat Assessment Fee, in accordance with procedures approved by TSA; and (3) Transmit to TSA the FBI Fee, in accordance with procedures approved by TSA and the FBI. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007; 72 FR 14050, Mar. 26, 2007] &#xA7; 1572.403 Procedures for collection by States. This section describes the procedures that a State, which collects fingerprints and applicant information under 49 CFR part 1572; and the procedures an individual who applies to obtain or renew an HME, for a CDL in that State, must follow for collection and transmission of the Threat Assessment Fee and the FBI Fee. (a) Imposition of fees. (1) An individual who applies to obtain or renew an HME, or the individuals' employer, must remit to the State the Threat Assessment Fee and the FBI Fee, in a form and manner approved by TSA and the State, when the individual submits the application for the HME to the State. (2) TSA shall publish the Threat Assessment Fee described in this subpart for an individual who applies to obtain or renew and HME as a Notice in the Federal Register. TSA reviews the amount of the fees periodically, at least once every two years, to determine the current cost of conducting security threat assessments. Fee amounts and any necessary revisions to the fee amounts shall be determined by current costs, using a method of analysis consistent with widely accepted accounting principles and practices, and calculated in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9701 and other applicable Federal law. (3) The FBI Fee required for the FBI to process fingerprint identification records and name checks required under 49 CFR part 1572 is determined by the FBI under Public Law 101-515. If the FBI amends this fee, the individual must remit the amended fee. (b) Collection of fees. (1) A State must collect the Threat Assessment Fee and FBI Fee, when an individual submits an application to the State to obtain or renew an HME. (2) Once TSA receives an application from a State for a security threat assessment under 49 CFR part 1572, the State is liable for the Threat Assessment Fee. (3) Nothing in this subpart prevents a State from collecting any other fees that a State may impose on an individual who applies to obtain or renew an HME. (c) Handling of fees. (1) A State must safeguard all Threat Assessment Fees, from the time of collection until remittance to TSA. (2) All Threat Assessment Fees are held in trust by a State for the beneficial interest of the United States in paying for the costs of conducting the security threat assessment, required by 49 U.S.C. 5103a and 49 CFR part 1572. A State holds neither legal nor equitable interest in the Threat Assessment Fees, except for the right to retain any accrued interest on the principal amounts collected pursuant to this section. (3) A State must account for Threat Assessment Fees separately, but may commingle such fees with other sources of revenue. (d) Remittance of fees. (1) TSA will generate and provide an invoice to a State on a monthly basis. The invoice will indicate the total fee dollars (number of applicants times the Threat Assessment Fee) that are due for the month. (2) A State must remit to TSA full payment for the invoice, within 30 days after TSA sends the invoice. (3) TSA accepts Threat Assessment Fees only from a State, not from an individual applicant for an HME. (4) A State may retain any interest that accrues on the principal amounts collected between the date of collection and the date the Threat Assessment Fee is remitted to TSA, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (5) A State may not retain any portion of the Threat Assessment Fee to offset the costs of collecting, handling, or remitting Threat Assessment Fees. (6) Threat Assessment Fees, remitted to TSA by a State, must be in U.S. currency, drawn on a U.S. bank, and made payable to the &#x201C;Transportation Security Administration.&#x201D; (7) Threat Assessment Fees must be remitted by check, money order, wire, or any other payment method acceptable to TSA. (8) TSA will not issue any refunds of Threat Assessment Fees. (9) If a State does not remit the Threat Assessment Fees for any month, TSA may decline to process any HME applications from that State. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 24359, Apr. 25, 2013] &#xA7; 1572.405 Procedures for collection by TSA. This section describes the procedures that an individual, who applies to obtain or renew an HME for a CDL, must follow if a TSA agent collects and transmits the Information Collection Fee, Threat Assessment Fee, and FBI Fee. (a) Imposition of fees. (1) An individual who applies to obtain or renew an HME, or the individuals' employer, must remit to the TSA agent the Information Collection Fee, Threat Assessment Fee, and FBI Fee, in a form and manner approved by TSA, when the individual submits the application required under 49 CFR part 1572. (2) TSA shall publish the Information Collection Fee and Threat Assessment Fee described in this subpart for an individual who applies to obtain or renew an HME as a Notice in the Federal Register. TSA reviews the amount of the fees periodically, at least once every two years, to determine the current cost of conducting security threat assessments. Fee amounts and any necessary revisions to the fee amounts shall be determined by current costs, using a method of analysis consistent with widely accepted accounting principles and practices, and calculated in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9701 and other applicable Federal law. (3) The FBI Fee required for the FBI to process fingerprint identification records and name checks required under 49 CFR part 1572 is determined by the FBI under Public Law 101-515. If the FBI amends this fee, TSA or its agent, will collect the amended fee. (b) Collection of fees. A TSA agent will collect the fees required under this section, when an individual submits an application to the TSA agent, in accordance with 49 CFR part 1572. (c) Remittance of fees. (1) Fees required under this section, which are remitted to a TSA agent, must be made in U.S. currency, drawn on a U.S. bank, and made payable to the &#x201C;Transportation Security Administration.&#x201D; (2) Fees required under this section must be remitted by check, money order, wire, or any other payment method acceptable to TSA. (3) TSA will not issue any refunds of fees required under this section. (4) Applications, submitted in accordance with 49 CFR part 1572, will be processed only upon receipt of all applicable fees under this section. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 24359, Apr. 25, 2013] Subpart F-Fees for Security Threat Assessments for Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) &#xA7; 1572.500 Scope. (a) Scope. This part applies to- (1) Individuals who apply to obtain or renew a Transportation Worker Identification Credential and must undergo a security threat assessment under 49 CFR part 1572; and (2) Entities that collect fees from such individuals on behalf of TSA. (b) Terms. As used in this part: TSA agent means the entity approved by TSA to collect and transmit fingerprints and applicant information, and collect fees in accordance with this part. &#xA7; 1572.501 Fee collection. (a) When fee must be paid. When an applicant submits the information and fingerprints required under 49 CFR part 1572 to obtain or renew a TWIC, the fee must be remitted to TSA or its agent in accordance with the requirements of this section. Applications submitted in accordance with 49 CFR part 1572 will be processed only upon receipt of all required fees under this section. (b) Standard TWIC Fees. The fee to obtain or renew a TWIC, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, includes the following segments: (1) The Enrollment Segment Fee covers the costs for TSA or its agent to enroll applicants. (2) The Full Card Production/Security Threat Assessment Segment Fee covers the costs for TSA or its agent to conduct a security threat assessment and produce the TWIC. (3) The FBI Segment Fee covers the costs for the FBI to process fingerprint identification records, and is the amount collected by the FBI under Pub. L. 101-515. If the FBI amends this fee, TSA or its agent will collect the amended fee. (c) Reduced TWIC Fee. The fee to obtain a TWIC when the applicant has undergone a comparable threat assessment in connection with an HME, FAST card, other threat assessment deemed to be comparable under 49 CFR 1572.5(e) or holds a Merchant Mariner Document or Merchant Mariner License is made up of the total of the following segments: (1) The Enrollment Segment Fee covers the costs for TSA or its agent to enroll applicants. (2) The Reduced Card Production/Security Threat Assessment Segment covers the costs for TSA to conduct a portion of the security threat assessment and issue a TWIC. (d) Card Replacement Fee. The Card Replacement Fee covers the costs for TSA to replace a TWIC when a TWIC holder reports that his/her TWIC has been lost, stolen, or damaged. (e) Form of fee. The TSA vendor will collect the fee required to obtain or renew a TWIC and will determine the method of acceptable payment, subject to approval by TSA. (f) Refunds. TSA will not issue any refunds of fees required under this section. (g) Imposition of fees. TSA routinely establishes and collects fees to conduct the security threat assessment and credentialing process. These fees apply to all entities requesting a security threat assessment and/or credential. The fees described in this section for an individual who applies to obtain, renew, or replace a TWIC under 49 CFR part 1572, shall be published as a Notice in the Federal Register. TSA reviews the amount of these fees periodically, at least once every two years, to determine the current cost of conducting security threat assessments. Fee amounts and any necessary revisions to the fee amounts shall be determined by current costs, using a method of analysis consistent with widely-accepted accounting principles and practices, and calculated in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9701 and other applicable Federal law. [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 55049, Sept. 28, 2007; 78 FR 24359, Apr. 25, 2013]