PART 661-BUY AMERICA REQUIREMENTS Authority: 49 U.S.C. 5323(j) (formerly sec. 165 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-424); as amended by sec. 337, Pub. L. 100-17; sec. 1048, Pub. L. 102-240; sec. 3020(b), Pub. L. 105-178; and sec. 3023(i) and (k), Pub. L. 109-59); 49 CFR 1.51. Source: 56 FR 932, Jan. 9, 1991, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 661.1 Applicability. Unless otherwise noted, this part applies to all federally assisted procurements using funds authorized by 49 U.S.C. 5323(j); 23 U.S.C. 103(e)(4); and section 14 of the National Capital Transportation Act of 1969, as amended. [56 FR 932, Jan. 9, 1991, as amended at 72 FR 53696, Sept. 20, 2007] &#xA7; 661.3 Definitions. As used in this part: Act means the Federal Public Transportation Law (49 U.S.C. Chapter 53). Administrator means the Administrator of FTA, or designee. Component means any article, material, or supply, whether manufactured or unmanufactured, that is directly incorporated into the end product at the final assembly location. Contractor means a party to a third party contract other than the grantee. End product means any vehicle, structure, product, article, material, supply, or system, which directly incorporates constituent components at the final assembly location, that is acquired for public use under a federally-funded third-party contract, and which is ready to provide its intended end function or use without any further manufacturing or assembly change(s). A list of representative end products is included at Appendix A to this section. FTA means the Federal Transit Administration. Grantee means any entity that is a recipient of FTA funds. Manufactured product means an item produced as a result of the manufacturing process. Manufacturing process means the application of processes to alter the form or function of materials or of elements of the product in a manner adding value and transforming those materials or elements so that they represent a new end product functionally different from that which would result from mere assembly of the elements or materials. Negotiated procurement means a contract awarded using other than sealed bidding procedures. Rolling stock means transit vehicles such as buses, vans, cars, railcars, locomotives, trolley cars and buses, and ferry boats, as well as vehicles used for support services. System means a machine, product, or device, or a combination of such equipment, consisting of individual components, whether separate or interconnected by piping, transmission devices, electrical cables or circuitry, or by other devices, which are intended to contribute together to a clearly defined function. Factors to consider in determining whether a system constitutes an end product include: Whether performance warranties apply to an integrated system (regardless of whether components are separately warranteed); whether products perform on an integrated basis with other products in a system, or are operated independently of associated products in the system; or whether transit agencies routinely procure a product separately (other than as replacement or spare parts). United States means the several States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Appendix A to &#xA7; 661.3-End Products The following is a list of representative end products that are subject to the requirements of Buy America. This list is representative, not exhaustive. (1) Rolling stock end products: All individual items identified as rolling stock in &#xA7; 661.3 (e.g., buses, vans, cars, railcars, locomotives, trolley cars and buses, ferry boats, as well as vehicles used for support services); train control, communication, and traction power equipment that meets the definition of end product at &#xA7; 661.3 (e.g., a communication or traction power system, including manufactured bimetallic power rail). (2) Steel and iron end products: Items made primarily of steel or iron such as structures, bridges, and track work, including running rail, contact rail, and turnouts. (3) Manufactured end products: Infrastructure projects not made primarily of steel or iron, including structures (terminals, depots, garages, and bus shelters), ties and ballast; contact rail not made primarily of steel or iron; fare collection systems; computers; information systems; security systems; data processing systems; and mobile lifts, hoists, and elevators. [72 FR 53696, Sept. 20, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 30239, June 25, 2009] &#xA7; 661.5 General requirements. (a) Except as provided in &#xA7; 661.7 and &#xA7; 661.11 of this part, no funds may be obligated by FTA for a grantee project unless all iron, steel, and manufactured products used in the project are produced in the United States. (b) All steel and iron manufacturing processes must take place in the United States, except metallurgical processes involving refinement of steel additives. (c) The steel and iron requirements apply to all construction materials made primarily of steel or iron and used in infrastructure projects such as transit or maintenance facilities, rail lines, and bridges. These items include, but are not limited to, structural steel or iron, steel or iron beams and columns, running rail and contact rail. These requirements do not apply to steel or iron used as components or subcomponents of other manufactured products or rolling stock, or to bimetallic power rail incorporating steel or iron components. (d) For a manufactured product to be considered produced in the United States: (1) All of the manufacturing processes for the product must take place in the United States; and (2) All of the components of the product must be of U.S. origin. A component is considered of U.S. origin if it is manufactured in the United States, regardless of the origin of its subcomponents. [61 FR 6302, Feb. 16, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 30239, June 25, 2009] &#xA7; 661.6 Certification requirements for procurement of steel or manufactured products. If steel, iron, or manufactured products (as defined in &#xA7;&#xA7; 661.3 and 661.5 of this part) are being procured, the appropriate certificate as set forth below shall be completed and submitted by each bidder or offeror in accordance with the requirement contained in &#xA7; 661.13(b) of this part. Certificate of Compliance with Buy America Requirements The bidder or offeror hereby certifies that it will comply with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(1), and the applicable regulations in 49 CFR part 661. Date Signature Company Name Title Certificate of Non-Compliance with Buy America Requirements The bidder or offeror hereby certifies that it cannot comply with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j), but it may qualify for an exception to the requirement pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2), as amended, and the applicable regulations in 49 CFR 661.7. Date Signature Company Name Title [71 FR 14117, Mar. 21, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 53696, Sept. 20, 2007] &#xA7; 661.7 Waivers. (a) Section 5323(j)(2) of Title 49 United States Code provides that the general requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(1) shall not apply in four specific instances. This section sets out the conditions for the three statutory waivers based on public interest, non-availability, and price-differential. Section 661.11 of this part sets out the conditions for the fourth statutory waiver governing the procurement of rolling stock and associated equipment. (b) Under the provision of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2)(A), the Administrator may waive the general requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(1) if the Administrator finds that their application would be inconsistent with the public interest. In determining whether the conditions exist to grant this public interest waiver, the Administrator will consider all appropriate factors on a case-by-case basis, unless a general exception is specifically set out in this part. When granting a public interest waiver, the Administrator shall issue a detailed written statement justifying why the waiver is in the public interest. The Administrator shall publish this justification in the Federal Register, providing the public with a reasonable time for notice and comment of not more than seven calendar days. (c) Under the provision of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2), the Administrator may waive the general requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j) if the Administrator finds that the materials for which a waiver is requested are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of a satisfactory quality. (1) It will be presumed that the conditions exist to grant this non-availability waiver if no responsive and responsible bid is received offering an item produced in the United States. (2) In the case of a sole source procurement, the Administrator will grant this non-availability waiver only if the grantee provides sufficient information which indicates that the item to be procured is only available from a single source or that the item to be procured is not produced in sufficient and reasonably available quantities of a satisfactory quality in the United States. (3) After contract award, the Administrator may grant a non-availability waiver under this paragraph, in any case in which a bidder or offeror originally certified compliance with the Buy America requirements in good faith, but can no longer comply with its certification. The Administrator will grant a non-availability waiver only if the grantee provides sufficient evidence that the original certification was made in good faith and that the item to be procured cannot now be obtained domestically due to commercial impossibility or impracticability. In determining whether the conditions exist to grant a post-award non-availability waiver, the Administrator will consider all appropriate factors on a case-by-case basis. (d) Under the provision of section 165(b)(4) of the Act, the Administrator may waive the general requirements of section 165(a) if the Administrator finds that the inclusion of a domestic item or domestic material will increase the cost of the contract between the grantee and its supplier of that item or material by more than 25 percent. The Administrator will grant this price-differential waiver if the amount of the lowest responsive and responsible bid offering the item or material that is not produced in the United States multiplied by 1.25 is less than the amount of the lowest responsive and responsible bid offering the item or material produced in the United States. (e) The four statutory waivers of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2) as set out in this part shall be treated as being separate and distinct from each other. (f) The waivers described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be granted for a component or subcomponent in the case of the procurement of the items governed by 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2)(C) (requirements for rolling stock). If a waiver is granted for a component or a subcomponent, that component or subcomponent will be considered to be of domestic origin for the purposes of &#xA7; 661.11 of this part. (g) The waivers described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be granted for a specific item or material that is used in the production of a manufactured product that is governed by the requirements of &#xA7; 661.5(d) of this part. If such a waiver is granted to such a specific item or material, that item or material will be treated as being of domestic origin. (h) The provisions of this section shall not apply to products produced in a foreign country if the Secretary, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative, determines that: (1) That foreign country is party to an agreement with the United States pursuant to which the head of an agency of the United States has waived the requirements of this section; and (2) That foreign country has violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against products covered by this section that are produced in the United States and are covered by the agreement. Appendix A to &#xA7; 661.7-General Waivers (a) All waivers published in 48 CFR 25.104 which establish excepted articles, materials, and supplies for the Buy American Act of 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-d), as the waivers may be amended from time to time, apply to this part under the provisions of &#xA7; 661.7 (b) and (c). (b) Under the provisions of &#xA7; 661.7 (b) and (c) of this part, a general public interest waiver from the Buy America requirements applies to microprocessors, computers, microcomputers, or software, or other such devices, which are used solely for the purpose of processing or storing data. This general waiver does not extend to a product or device which merely contains a microprocessor or microcomputer and is not used solely for the purpose of processing or storing data. (c) Under the provisions of &#xA7; 661.7(b) of this part, a general public interest waiver from the Buy America requirements for &#x201C;small purchases&#x201D; (as defined in the &#x201C;common grant rule,&#x201D; at 49 CFR 18.36(d)) made by FTA grantees with capital, planning, or operating assistance. [56 FR 932, Jan. 9, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 37928, July 24, 1995, 61 FR 6302, Feb. 16, 1996; 71 FR 14117, Mar. 21, 2006; 72 FR 53697, Sept. 20, 2007; 74 FR 30239, June 25, 2009] &#xA7; 661.9 Application for waivers. (a) This section sets out the application procedures for obtaining all waivers, except those general exceptions set forth in this part for which individual applications are unnecessary and those covered by 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2)(C). The procedures for obtaining an exception covered by 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2)(C) are set forth in &#xA7; 661.11 of this part. (b) A bidder or offeror who seeks to establish grounds for an exception must seek the exception, in a timely manner, through the grantee. (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, only a grantee may request a waiver. The request must be in writing, include facts and justification to support the waiver, and be submitted to the Administrator through the appropriate Regional Office. (d) FTA will consider a request for a waiver from a potential bidder, offeror, or supplier only if the waiver is being sought under &#xA7; 661.7 (f) or (g) of this part. (e) The Administrator will issue a written determination setting forth the reasons for granting or denying the exception request. Each request for an exception, and FTA's action on the request, are available for public inspection under the provisions of 49 CFR part 601, subpart C. [56 FR 932, Jan. 9, 1991, as amended at 71 FR 14117, Mar. 21, 2006; 72 FR 53697, Sept. 20, 2007] &#xA7; 661.11 Rolling stock procurements. (a) The provisions of &#xA7; 661.5 do not apply to the procurement of buses and other rolling stock (including train control, communication, and traction power equipment), if the cost of components produced in the United States is more than 60 percent of the cost of all components and final assembly takes place in the United States. (b) The domestic content requirements in paragraph (a) of this section also apply to the domestic content requirements for components set forth in paragraphs (i), (j), and (l) of this section. (c) A component is any article, material, or supply, whether manufactured or unmanufactured, that is directly incorporated into an end product at the final assembly location. (d) A component may be manufactured at the final assembly location if the manufacturing process to produce the component is an activity separate and distinct from the final assembly of the end product. (e) A component is considered to be manufactured if there are sufficient activities taking place to advance the value or improve the condition of the subcomponents of that component; that is, if the subcomponents have been substantially transformed or merged into a new and functionally different article. (f) Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, a subcomponent is any article, material, or supply, whether manufactured or unmanufactured, that is one step removed from a component (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) in the manufacturing process and that is incorporated directly into a component. (g) For a component to be of domestic origin, more that 60 percent of the subcomponents of that component, by cost, must be of domestic origin, and the manufacture of the component must take place in the United States. If, under the terms of this part, a component is determined to be of domestic origin, its entire cost may be used in calculating the cost of domestic content of an end product. (h) A subcomponent is of domestic origin if it is manufactured in the United States. (i) If a subcomponent manufactured in the United States is exported for inclusion in a component that is manufactured outside the United States and it receives tariff exemptions under the procedures set forth in 19 CFR 10.11 through 10.24, the subcomponent retains its domestic identity and can be included in the calculation of the domestic content of an end product even if such a subcomponent represents less than 60 percent of the cost of a particular component. (j) If a subcomponent manufactured in the United States is exported for inclusion in a component manufactured outside the United States and it does not receive tariff exemption under the procedures set forth in 19 CFR 10.11 through 10.24, the subcomponent loses its domestic identity and cannot be included in the calculation of the domestic content of an end product. (k) Raw materials produced in the United States and then exported for incorporation into a component are not considered to be a subcomponent for the purpose of calculating domestic content. The value of such raw materials is to be included in the cost of the foreign component. (l) If a component is manufactured in the United States, but contains less than 60 percent domestic subcomponents, by cost, the cost of the domestic subcomponents and the cost of manufacturing the component may be included in the calculation of the domestic content of the end product. (m) For purposes of this section, except as provided in paragraph (o) of this section: (1) The cost of a component or a subcomponent is the price that a bidder or offeror must pay to a subcontractor or supplier for that component or subcomponent. Transportation costs to the final assembly location must be included in calculating the cost of foreign components and subcomponents. (2) If a component or subcomponent is manufactured by the bidder or offeror, the cost of the component is the cost of labor and materials incorporated into the component or subcomponent, an allowance for profit, and the administrative and overhead costs attributable to that component or subcomponent under normal accounting principles. (n) The cost of a component of foreign origin is set using the foreign exchange rate at the time the bidder or offeror executes the appropriate Buy America certificate. (o) The cost of a subcomponent that retains its domestic identity consistent with paragraph (j) of this section shall be the cost of the subcomponent when last purchased, f.o.b. United States port of exportation or point of border crossing as set out in the invoice and entry papers or, if no purchase was made, the value of the subcomponent at the time of its shipment for exportation, f.o.b. United States port of exportation or point of border crossing as set out in the invoice and entry papers. (p) In accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5323(j), labor costs involved in final assembly shall not be included in calculating component costs. (q) The actual cost, not the bid price, of a component is to be considered in calculating domestic content. (r) Final assembly is the creation of the end product from individual elements brought together for that purpose through application of manufacturing processes. If a system is being procured as the end product by the grantee, the installation of the system qualifies as final assembly. (s) [Reserved] (t) Train control equipment includes, but is not limited to, the following equipment: (1) Mimic board in central control (2) Dispatcher's console (3) Local control panels (4) Station (way side) block control relay cabinets (5) Terminal dispatcher machines (6) Cable/cable trays (7) Switch machines (8) Way side signals (9) Impedance bonds (10) Relay rack bungalows (11) Central computer control (12) Brake equipment (13) Brake systems (14) Cab Signaling; (15) ATO Equipment; (16) ATP Equipment; (17) Wayside Transponders; (18) Trip Stop Equipment; (19) Wayside Magnets; (20) Speed Measuring Devices; (21) Car Axle Counters; (22) Communication Based Train Control (CBTC). (u) Communication equipment includes, but is not limited to, the following equipment: (1) Radios (2) Space station transmitter and receivers (3) Vehicular and hand-held radios (4) PABX telephone switching equipment (5) PABX telephone instruments (6) Public address amplifiers (7) Public address speakers (8) Cable transmission system cable (9) Cable transmission system multiplex equipment (10) Communication console at central control (11) Uninterruptible power supply inverters/rectifiers (12) Uninterruptible power supply batteries (13) Data transmission system central processors (14) Data transmission system remote terminals (15) Line printers for data transmission system (16) Communication system monitor test panel (17) Security console at central control (18) Antennas; (19) Wireless Telemetry Equipment; (20) Passenger Information Displays; (21) Communications Control Units; (22) Communication Control Heads; (23) Wireless Intercar Transceivers; (24) Multiplexers; (25) SCADA Systems; (26) LED Arrays; (27) Screen Displays such as LEDs and LCDs for communication systems; (28) Fiber-optic transmission equipment; (29) Fiber-optic transmission equipment; (30) Frame or cell based multiplexing equipment; 13) Communication system network elements. (v) Traction power equipment includes, but is not limited to the following: (1) Primary AC switch gear (2) Primary AC transformer rectifiers (3) DC switch gear (4) Traction power console and CRT display system at central control (5) Bus ducts with buses (AC and DC) (6) Batteries (7) Traction power rectifier assemblies (8) Distribution panels (AC and DC) (9) Facility step-down transformers (10) Motor control centers (facility use only) (11) Battery chargers (12) Supervisory control panel (13) Annunciator panels (14) Low voltage facility distribution switch board (15) DC connect switches (16) Negative bus boxes (17) Power rail insulators (18) Power cables (AC and DC) (19) Cable trays (20) Instrumentation for traction power equipment (21) Connectors, tensioners, and insulators for overhead power wire systems (22) Negative drainage boards (23) Inverters (24) Traction motors (25) Propulsion gear boxes (26) Third rail pick-up equipment (27) Pantographs (28) Propulsion Control Systems; (29) Surge Arrestors; (30) Protective Relaying. (31) Bimetallic power rail. (w) The power or third rail is not considered traction power equipment and is thus subject to the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j) and the requirements of &#xA7; 661.5. (x) A bidder on a contract for an item covered by 49 U.S.C. 5323(j) who will comply with section 165(b)(3) and regulations in this section is not required to follow the application for waiver procedures set out in &#xA7; 661.9. In lieu of these procedures, the bidder must submit the appropriate certificate required by &#xA7; 661.12. Appendix A to &#xA7; 661.11-General Waivers (a) The provisions of &#xA7; 661.11 of this part do not apply when foreign sourced spare parts for buses and other rolling stock (including train control, communication, and traction power equipment) whose total cost is 10 percent or less of the overall project contract cost are being procured as part of the same contract for the major capital item. (b) [Reserved] Appendix B to &#xA7; 661.11-Typical Components of Buses The following is a list of items that typically would be considered components of a bus. This list is not all-inclusive. Car body shells, egines, transmissions, front axle assemblies, rear axle assemblies, drive shaft assemblies, front suspension assemblies, rear suspension assemblies, air compressor and pneumatic systems, generator/alternator and electrical systems, steering system assemblies, front and rear air brake assemblies, air conditioning compressor assemblies, air conditioning evaporator/condenser assemblies, heating systems. passenger seats, driver's seat assemblies, window assemblies, entrance and exit door assemblies, door control systems, destination sign assemblies, interior lighting assemblies, front and rear end cap assemblies, front and rear bumper assemblies, specialty steel (structural steel tubing, etc.) aluminum extrusions, aluminum, steel or fiberglass exterior panels, and interior trim, flooring, and floor coverings. Appendix C to &#xA7; 661.11-Typical Components of Rail Rolling Stock The following is a list of items that typically would be considered components of rail rolling stock. This list is not all inclusive. Car shells, engines, main transformer, pantographs, traction motors, propulsion gear boxes, interior linings, acceleration and braking resistors, propulsion controls, low voltage auxiliary power supplies, air conditioning equipment, air brake compressors, brake controls, foundation brake equipment, articulation assemblies, train control systems, window assemblies, communication equipment, lighting, seating, doors, door actuators and controls, wheelchair lifts and ramps to make the vehicle accessible to persons with disabilities, couplers and draft gear, trucks, journal bearings, axles, diagnostic equipment, and third rail pick-up equipment. Appendix D to &#xA7; 661.11-Minimum Requirements for Final Assembly (a) Rail Cars: In the case of the manufacture of a new rail car, final assembly would typically include, as a minimum, the following operations: installation and interconnection of propulsion control equipment, propulsion cooling equipment, brake equipment, energy sources for auxiliaries and controls, heating and air conditioning, communications equipment, motors, wheels and axles, suspensions and frames; the inspection and verification of all installation and interconnection work; and the in-plant testing of the stationary product to verify all functions. (b) Buses: In the case of a new bus, final assembly would typically include, at a minimum, the installation and interconnection of the engine, transmission, axles, including the cooling and braking systems; the installation and interconnection of the heating and air conditioning equipment; the installation of pneumatic and electrical systems, door systems, passenger seats, passenger grab rails, destination signs, wheelchair lifts; and road testing, final inspection, repairs and preparation of the vehicles for delivery. (c) If a manufacturer's final assembly processes do not include all the activities that are typically considered the minimum requirements, it can request a Federal Transit Administration (FTA) determination of compliance. FTA will review these requests on a case-by-case basis to determine compliance with Buy America. [61 FR 6302, Feb. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 40954, July 31, 1997; 72 FR 53697, Sept. 20, 2007; 72 FR 55103, Sept. 28, 2007; 74 FR 30239, June 25, 2009] &#xA7; 661.12 Certification requirement for procurement of buses, other rolling stock and associated equipment. If buses or other rolling stock (including train control, communication, and traction power equipment) are being procured, the appropriate certificate as set forth below shall be completed and submitted by each bidder in accordance with the requirement contained in &#xA7; 661.13(b) of this part. Certificate of Compliance with Buy America Rolling Stock Requirements The bidder or offeror hereby certifies that it will comply with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j), and the applicable regulations of 49 CFR 661.11. Date Signature Company Name Title Certificate of Non-Compliance with Buy America Rolling Stock Requirements The bidder or offeror hereby certifies that it cannot comply with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5323(j), but may qualify for an exception to the requirement consistent with 49 U.S.C. 5323(j)(2)(C), and the applicable regulations in 49 CFR 661.7. Date Signature Company Name Title [71 FR 14117, Mar. 21, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 53698, Sept. 20, 2007; 74 FR 30239, June 25, 2009] &#xA7; 661.13 Grantee responsibility. (a) The grantee shall adhere to the Buy America clause set forth in its grant contract with FTA. (b) The grantee shall include in its bid or request for proposal (RFP) specification for procurement within the scope of this part an appropriate notice of the Buy America provision. Such specifications shall require, as a condition of responsiveness, that the bidder or offeror submit with the bid or offer a completed Buy America certificate in accordance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 661.6 or 661.12 of this part, as appropriate. (1) A bidder or offeror who has submitted an incomplete Buy America certificate or an incorrect certificate of noncompliance through inadvertent or clerical error (but not including failure to sign the certificate, submission of certificates of both compliance and non-compliance, or failure to submit any certification), may submit to the FTA Chief Counsel within ten (10) days of bid opening of submission or a final offer, a written explanation of the circumstances surrounding the submission of the incomplete or incorrect certification in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746, sworn under penalty of perjury, stating that the submission resulted from inadvertent or clerical error. The bidder or offeror will also submit evidence of intent, such as information about the origin of the product, invoices, or other working documents. The bidder or offeror will simultaneously send a copy of this information to the FTA grantee. (i) The FTA Chief Counsel may request additional information from the bidder or offeror, if necessary. The grantee may not make a contract award until the FTA Chief Counsel issues his/her determination, except as provided in &#xA7; 661.15(m). (ii) [Reserved] (2) For negotiated procurements, compliance with the Buy America requirements shall be determined on the basis of the certification submitted with the final offer or final revised proposal. However, where a grantee awards on the basis of initial proposals without discussion, the certification submitted with the initial proposal shall control. (3) Certification based on ignorance of the proper application of the Buy America requirements is not an inadvertent or clerical error. (c) Whether or not a bidder or offeror certifies that it will comply with the applicable requirement, such bidder or offeror is bound by its original certification (in the case of a sealed bidding procurement) or its certification submitted with its final offer (in the case of a negotiated procurement) and is not permitted to change its certification after bid opening or submission of a final offer. Where a bidder or offeror certifies that it will comply with the applicable Buy America requirements, the bidder, offeror, or grantee is not eligible for a waiver of those requirements. [56 FR 932, Jan. 9, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 9799, Feb. 28, 2003; 71 FR 14117, Mar. 21, 2006] &#xA7; 661.15 Investigation procedures. (a) It is presumed that a bidder or offeror who has submitted the required Buy America certificate is complying with the Buy America provision. A false certification is a criminal act in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001. (b) Any party may petition FTA to investigate the compliance of a successful bidder or offeror with the bidder's or offeror's certification. That party (&#x201C;the petitioner&#x201D;) must include in the petition a statement of the grounds of the petition and any supporting documentation. If FTA determines that the information presented in the petition indicates that the presumption in paragraph (a) of this section has been overcome, FTA will initiate an investigation. (c) In appropriate circumstances, FTA may determine on its own to initiate an investigation without receiving a petition from a third party. (d) When FTA determines under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section to conduct an investigation, it requests that the grantee require the successful bidder or offeror to document its compliance with its Buy America certificate. The successful bidder or offeror has the burden of proof to establish that it is in compliance. Documentation of compliance is based on the specific circumstances of each investigation, and FTA will specify the documentation required in each case. (e) The grantee shall reply to the request under paragraph (d) of this section within 15 working days of the request. The investigated party may correspond directly with FTA during the course of investigation, if it informs the grantee that it intends to do so, and if the grantee agrees to such action in writing. The grantee must inform FTA, in writing, that the investigated party will respond directly to FTA. An investigated party may provide confidential or proprietary information (see paragraph (l) of this section) directly to FTA while providing other information required to be submitted as part of the investigation through the grantee. (f) Any additional information requested or required by FTA must be submitted within 5 working days after the receipt of such request unless specifically exempted by FTA. (g) The grantee's reply (or that of the bidder or offeror) will be transmitted to the petitioner. The petitioner may submit comments on the reply to FTA within 10 working days after receipt of the reply. The grantee and the low bidder or offeror will be furnished with a copy of the petitioner's comments, and their comments must be received by FTA within 5 working days after receipt of the petitioner's comments. (h) The failure of a party to comply with the time limits stated in this section may result in resolution of the investigation without consideration of untimely filed comments. (i) During the course of an investigation, with appropriate notification to affected parties, FTA may conduct site visits of manufacturing facilities and final assembly locations as it considers appropriate. (j) FTA will, upon request, make available to any interested party information bearing on the substance of the investigation which has been submitted by the petitioner, interested parties or grantees, except to the extent that withholding of information is permitted or required by law or regulation. (k) If a party submitting information considers that the information submitted contains proprietary material which should be withheld, a statement advising FTA of this fact may be included, and the alleged proprietary information must be identified wherever it appears. Any comments on the information provided shall be submitted within a maximum of ten days. (l) For purposes of paragraph (j) of this section, confidential or proprietary material is any material or data whose disclosure could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm to the party claiming that the material is confidential or proprietary. (m) When a petition for investigation has been filed before award, the grantee will not make an award before the resolution of the investigation, unless the grantee determines that: (1) The items to be procured are urgently required; (2) Delivery of performance will be unduly delayed by failure to make the award promptly; or (3) Failure to make prompt award will otherwise cause undue harm to the grantee or the Federal Government. (n) In the event that the grantee determines that the award is to be made during the pendency of an investigation, the grantee will notify FTA before to making such award. FTA reserves the right not to participate in the funding of any contract awarded during the pendency of an investigation. (o) Initial decisions by FTA will be in written form. Reconsideration of an initial decision of FTA may be requested by any party involved in an investigation. FTA will only reconsider a decision only if the party requesting reconsideration submits new matters of fact or points of law that were not known or available to the party during the investigation. A request for reconsideration of a decision of FTA shall be filed not later than ten (10) working days after the initial written decision. A request for reconsideration will be subject to the procedures in this section consistent with the need for prompt resolution of the matter. [56 FR 932, Jan. 9, 1991, as amended at 71 FR 14118, Mar. 21, 2006] &#xA7; 661.17 Failure to comply with certification. If a successful bidder or offeror fails to demonstrate that it is in compliance with its certification, it will be required to take the necessary steps in order to achieve compliance. If a bidder or offeror takes these necessary steps, it will not be allowed to change its original bid price or the price of its final offer. If a bidder or offeror does not take the necessary steps, it will not be awarded the contract if the contract has not yet been awarded, and it is in breach of contract if a contract has been awarded. [71 FR 14118, Mar. 21, 2006] &#xA7; 661.18 Intentional violations. A person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with funds authorized under the Federal Public Transportation Act of 2005 pursuant to part 29 of this title if it has been determined by a court or Federal agency that the person intentionally- (a) Affixed a label bearing a &#x201C;Made in America&#x201D; inscription, or an inscription with the same meaning, to a product not made in the United States, but sold in or shipped to the United States and used in projects to which this section applies, or (b) Otherwise represented that any such product was produced in the United States. [61 FR 6303, Feb. 16, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 53698, Sept. 20, 2007] &#xA7; 661.19 Sanctions. A willful refusal to comply with a certification by a successful bidder or offeror may lead to the initiation of debarment or suspension proceedings under part 29 of this title. [71 FR 14118, Mar. 21, 2006] &#xA7; 661.20 Rights of parties. (a) A party adversely affected by an FTA action under this subsection shall have the right to seek review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. 702 et seq. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the sole right of any third party under the Buy America provision is to petition FTA under the provisions of &#xA7; 661.15 of this part. No third party has any additional right, at law or equity, for any remedy including, but not limited to, injunctions, damages, or cancellation of the Federal grant or contracts of the grantee. [71 FR 14118, Mar. 21, 2006] &#xA7; 661.21 State Buy America provisions. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any State may impose more stringent Buy America or buy national requirements than contained in section 165 of the Act and the regulations in this part. (b) FTA will not participate in contracts governed by the following: (1) State Buy America or Buy National preference provisions which are not as strict as the Federal requirements. (2) State and local Buy National or Buy America preference provisions which are not explicitly set out under State law. For example, administrative interpretations of non-specific State legislation will not control. (3) State and local Buy Local preference provisions.