PART 1554-AIRCRAFT REPAIR STATION SECURITY Authority: 49 U.S.C. 114, 40113, 44903, 44924. Source: 79 FR 2140, Jan. 13, 2014, unless otherwise noted. Subpart A-General &#xA7; 1554.1 Scope. (a) This part applies to repair stations that are certificated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) pursuant to 14 CFR part 145, except for a part 145 certificated repair station located on a U.S. or foreign government military installation. (b) In addition to the terms in 49 CFR 1500.3 and 1540.5, for purposes of this part, &#x201C;large aircraft&#x201D; means any aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of more than 12,500 pounds and &#x201C;attended&#x201D; aircraft means an aircraft to which access is limited to authorized individuals and property. &#xA7; 1554.3 [Reserved] Subpart B-Security Measures &#xA7; 1554.101 Security Measures. (a) Applicability of this section. This section applies to part 145 certificated repair stations located- (1) On airport. On an air operations area or security identification display area of an airport covered by an airport security program under 49 CFR part 1542 in the United States, or on the security restricted area of any commensurate airport outside the United States regulated by a government entity; or (2) Adjacent to an airport. Adjacent to an area of the airport described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if there is an access point between the repair station and the airport of sufficient size to allow the movement of large aircraft between the repair station and the area described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (b) Security Measures. Each repair station described in paragraph (a) of this section must carry out the following measures: (1) Provide TSA with the name and means of contact on a 24-hour basis of a person or persons designated by the repair station with responsibility for- (i) Compliance with the regulations in this part; (ii) Serving as the primary point(s) of contact for security-related activities and communications with TSA; (iii) Maintaining a record of all employees responsible for controlling keys or other means used to control access to aircraft described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and (iv) Maintaining all records necessary to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (2) When not attended, prevent the unauthorized operation of all large aircraft capable of flight, by using one or more of the means listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. In these examples, a key, if used, must only be available to an individual authorized by the repair station who has successfully undergone a check as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (i) Block the path of the aircraft such that it cannot be moved, and control the vehicle key if a vehicle is used to block the path. (ii) Park the aircraft in a locked hangar and control the key to the hangar. (iii) Move stairs away from the aircraft and shut and, if feasible, lock all cabin and/or cargo doors, and control the key. (iv) Other means approved in writing by TSA. (3) Verify background information of those individuals who are designated as the TSA point(s) of contact and those who have access to any keys or other means used to prevent the operation of large aircraft described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section by one or more of the following means: (i) Verify an employee's employment history. The repair station obtains the employee's employment history for the most recent five year period or the time period since the employee's 18th birthday, whichever period is shorter. The repair station verifies the employee's employment history for the most recent 5-year period via telephone, email, or in writing. If the information is verified telephonically, the repair station must record the date of the communication and with whom the information was verified. If there is a gap in employment of six months or longer, without a satisfactory explanation of the gap, employment history is not verified. The repair station must retain employment history verification records for at least 180 days after the individual's employment ends. The repair station must maintain these records electronically or in hardcopy, and provide them to TSA upon request. (ii) Confirm an employee holds an airman certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration. (iii) Confirm an employee of a repair station located within the United States has obtained a security threat assessment or comparable security threat assessment pursuant to part 1540, subpart C of this chapter, such as by holding a SIDA identification media issued by an airport operator that holds a complete program under 49 CFR part 1542. (iv) Confirm an employee of a repair station located outside the United States has successfully completed a security threat assessment commensurate to a security threat assessment described in part 1540, subpart C of this chapter. (v) Other means approved in writing by TSA. &#xA7; 1554.103 Security Directives. (a) General. When TSA determines that additional security measures are necessary to respond to a threat assessment or to a specific threat against civil aviation, TSA issues a Security Directive setting forth mandatory measures. (b) Compliance. Each repair station must comply with each Security Directive TSA issues to the repair station within the time prescribed. Each repair station that receives a Security Directive must- (1) Acknowledge receipt of the Security Directive as directed by TSA; (2) Specify the method by which security measures have been or will be implemented to meet the effective date; and (3) Notify TSA to obtain approval of alternative measures if the repair station is unable to implement the measures in the Security Directive. (c) Availability. Each repair station that receives a Security Directive and each person who receives information from a Security Directive must- (1) Restrict the availability of the Security Directive and the information contained in the document to persons who have an operational need to know; and (2) Refuse to release the Security Directive or the information contained in the document to persons other than those who have an operational need to know without the prior written consent of TSA. (d) Comments. Each repair station that receives a Security Directive may comment on the Security Directive by submitting data, views, or arguments in writing to TSA. TSA may amend the Security Directive based on comments received. Submission of a comment does not delay the effective date of the Security Directive. Subpart C-Compliance and Enforcement &#xA7; 1554.201 Notification of security deficiencies; suspension of certificate and review process. (a) General. A repair station may be subject to suspension of its FAA certificate, if security deficiencies are identified and are not corrected. (b) Notice of security deficiencies. TSA provides written notification to a repair station and to the FAA of any security deficiency identified by TSA. (c) Response. A repair station must provide TSA with a written explanation in English of all efforts, methods, and procedures used to correct the security deficiencies identified by TSA within 45 calendar days of receipt of the written notification described in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Suspension of certificate. If the repair station does not correct security deficiencies within 90 calendar days of the repair station's receipt of the written notice of security deficiencies, or if TSA determines that the security deficiencies have not been addressed sufficiently to comply with this section, the TSA designated official will provide written notification to the repair station and to the FAA that the repair station's certificate must be suspended. The notification will include an explanation of the basis for the suspension. The suspension remains in effect until TSA determines that the security deficiencies have been corrected. (e) Petition for reconsideration. The repair station may petition TSA to reconsider its determination under paragraph (d) of this section by serving a petition for reconsideration no later than 20 calendar days after the repair station receives the notification. The repair station must serve the petition on the TSA designated official. Submission of a petition for reconsideration will not automatically stay the suspension. The repair station may request TSA to notify the FAA to stay the suspension pending review of and decision on the petition. The petition must be in writing, in English, signed by the repair station operator or owner, and include- (1) A statement that reconsideration is requested; and (2) A response to the suspension, including any information TSA should consider in reviewing the suspension. (f) Review by the TSA designated official. The TSA designated official will consider all relevant material and information and will act on the petition no later than 15 calendar days after TSA receives the petition. The TSA designated official will either notify the repair station and the FAA that the suspension be withdrawn or affirm the suspension. The decision of the TSA designated official constitutes a final agency order subject to judicial review in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 46110. (g) Service of documents. Service may be accomplished by personal delivery, certified mail, or express courier. Documents served on a repair station will be served at its official place of business. Documents served on TSA must be served at the address contained in the written notice of suspension. (1) A certificate of service may be attached to a document tendered for filing. A certificate of service must consist of a statement, dated and signed by the person filing the document, that the document was personally delivered, served by certified mail on a specific date, or served by express courier on a specific date. (2) The date of service is- (i) The date of personal delivery; (ii) If served by certified mail, the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark; or (iii) If served by express courier, the service date shown on the certificate of service, or by other evidence if there is no certificate of service. (h) Extension of time. TSA may grant an extension of time to the limits set forth in this section for good cause shown. A repair station must request an extension of time in writing, and TSA must receive it at least two days before the due date in order to be considered. TSA may grant itself an extension of time for good cause. &#xA7; 1554.203 Immediate risk to security; revocation of certificate and review process. (a) Notice. The TSA designated official will determine whether any repair station poses an immediate risk to security. If such a determination is made, TSA will provide written notification of its determination to the repair station and to the FAA that the certificate must be revoked. The notification will include an explanation of the basis for the revocation. TSA does not include classified information or other information described in &#xA7; 1554.205. (b) Petition for reconsideration. The repair station may petition TSA to reconsider its determination by serving a petition for reconsideration no later than 20 calendar days after the repair station receives the notification. The repair station must serve the petition on the TSA designated official. Submission of a petition for reconsideration will not automatically stay the revocation. The repair station may request TSA to notify FAA to stay the revocation pending review of and decision on the petition. The petition must be in writing, in English, signed by the repair station operator or owner, and include- (1) A statement that a review is requested; and (2) A response to the determination of immediate risk to security, including any information TSA should consider in reviewing the basis for the determination. (c) Review by the Administrator. The TSA designated official transmits the petition together with all relevant information to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator will act on the petition within 15 calendar days of receipt by either directing the TSA designated official to notify FAA and the repair station that the determination is rescinded and the certificate may be reinstated or by affirming the determination. The decision by the Administrator constitutes a final agency order subject to judicial review in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 46110. (d) Service of documents. Service may be accomplished by personal delivery, certified mail, or express courier. Documents served on a repair station will be served at its official place of business. Documents served on TSA must be served at the address contained in the written notice of revocation. (1) A certificate of service may be attached to a document tendered for filing. A certificate of service must consist of a statement, dated and signed by the person filing the document, that the document was personally delivered, served by certified mail on a specific date, or served by express courier on a specific date. (2) The date of service is- (i) The date of personal delivery; (ii) If served by certified mail, the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark; or (iii) If served by express courier, the service date shown on the certificate of service, or by other evidence if there is no certificate of service. (e) Extension of time. TSA may grant an extension of time to the limits set forth in this section for good cause shown. A repair station must request an extension of time in writing, and TSA must receive it at least two days before the due date in order to be considered. TSA may grant itself an extension of time for good cause. &#xA7; 1554.205 Nondisclosure of certain information. In connection with the procedures under this subpart, TSA does not disclose classified information, as defined in Executive Order 12968, section 1.1(d), or any successor order, and TSA reserves the right not to disclose any other information or material not warranting disclosure or protected from disclosure under law or regulation.