PART 577-DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE NOTIFICATION Authority: 49 U.S.C. 30102, 30103, 30116-121, 30166; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.95 and 49 CFR 501.8. Source: 41 FR 56816, Dec. 30, 1976, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 577.1 Scope. This part sets forth requirements for manufacturer notification to owners, dealers, and distributors of motor vehicles and items of replacement equipment about a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety or a noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard. [69 FR 34959, June 23, 2004] &#xA7; 577.2 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to ensure that notifications of defects or noncompliances adequately inform and effectively motivate owners of potentially defective or noncomplying motor vehicles or items of replacement equipment to have such vehicles or equipment inspected and, where necessary, remedied as quickly as possible. It is also to ensure that dealers and distributors of motor vehicles and items of replacement equipment are made aware of the existence of defects and noncompliances and of their rights and responsibilities with regard thereto. [41 FR 56816, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 69 FR 34959, June 23, 2004] &#xA7; 577.3 Application. This part applies to manufacturers of complete motor vehicles, incomplete motor vehicles, and replacement equipment. In the case of vehicles manufactured in two or more stages, compliance by either the manufacturer of the incomplete vehicle, any subsequent manufacturer, or the manufacturer of affected replacement equipment, shall be considered compliance by each of those manufacturers. &#xA7; 577.4 Definitions. For the purposes of this part: Act means 49 U.S.C. Chapter 30101-30169. Administrator means the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration or his delegate. First purchaser means the first purchaser in good faith for a purpose other than resale. Leased motor vehicle means any motor vehicle that is leased to a person for a term of at least four months by a lessor who has leased five or more vehicles in the twelve months preceding the date of notification by the vehicle manufacturer of the existence of a safety-related defect or noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard in the motor vehicle. Lessee means a person who is the lessee of a leased motor vehicle as defined in this section. Lessor means a person or entity that is the owner, as reflected on the vehicle's title, of any five or more leased vehicles (as defined in this section), as of the date of notification by the manufacturer of the existence of a safety-related defect or noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard in one or more of the leased motor vehicles. Owners includes purchaser. [41 FR 56816, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 17270, Apr. 5, 1995] &#xA7; 577.5 Notification pursuant to a manufacturer's decision. (a) When a manufacturer of motor vehicles or replacement equipment determines that any motor vehicle or item of replacement equipment produced by the manufacturer contains a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety, or fails to conform to an applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standard, or the manufacturer files a defect or noncompliance information report under 49 CFR part 573, the manufacturer shall provide notification in accordance with &#xA7; 577.7(a), unless the manufacturer is exempted by the Administrator (pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30118(d) or 30120(h)) from giving such notification. The notification shall contain the information specified in this section. The information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be presented in the form and order specified. The information required by paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section may be presented in any order. Except as authorized by the Administrator, the manufacturer shall submit a copy of its proposed owner notification letter, including any provisions or attachments related to reimbursement, to NHTSA's Recall Management Division (NVS-215) no fewer than five (5) Federal Government business days before it intends to begin mailing it to owners. The manufacturer shall mark the outside of each envelope in which it sends an owner notification letter with a notation that includes the phrase &#x201C;SAFETY RECALL NOTICE,&#x201D; all in capital letters and in a type that is larger than that used in the address section, and is also distinguishable from the other type in a manner other than size. It shall also imprint on the outside of this envelope a label in accordance with &#xA7; 577.14. Except where the format of the envelope has been previously approved by NHTSA's Recall Management Division (NVS-215), each manufacturer must submit the envelope format it intends to use to that division at least five (5) Federal Government business days before mailing the notification to owners. Submission of envelopes and proposed owner notification letters shall be made by the means identified in 49 CFR 573.9. Notification sent to an owner whose address is in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall be written in both English and Spanish. (b) At the top of the notification, there must be the statement &#x201C;IMPORTANT SAFETY RECALL,&#x201D; in all capital letters and in a type size that is larger than that used in the remainder of the letter. Then immediately below, for vehicle recalls, there must be the statement &#x201C;This notice applies to your vehicle, (manufacturer to insert VIN for the particular vehicle).&#x201D; If VIN placement is not possible in this location, the VIN must then be placed in another conspicuous location within the notification. Immediately below the foregoing, there must be the opening statement: &#x201C;This notice is sent to you in accordance with the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act.&#x201D; (c) Whichever of the following statements is appropriate: (1) &#x201C;(Manufacturer's name or division) has decided that a defect which relates to motor vehicle safety exists in (identified motor vehicles, in the case of notification sent by a motor vehicle manufacturer; identified replacement equipment, in the case of notification sent by a replacement equipment manufacturer);&#x201D; or (2) &#x201C;(Manufacturer's name or division) has decided that (identified motor vehicles, in the case of notification sent by a motor vehicle manufacturer; identified replacement equipment, in the case of notification sent by a replacement equipment manufacturer) fail to conform to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. (number and title of standard).&#x201D; (d) When the manufacturer determines that the defect or noncompliance may not exist in each such vehicle or item of replacement equipment, he may include an additional statement to that effect. (e) A clear description of the defect or noncompliance, which shall include- (1) An identification of the vehicle system or particular item(s) of motor vehicle equipment affected. (2) A description of the malfunction that may occur as a result of the defect or noncompliance. The description of a noncompliance with an applicable standard shall include, in general terms, the difference between the performance of the noncomplying vehicle or item of replacement equipment and the performance specified by the standard; (3) A statement of any operating or other conditions that may cause the malfunction to occur; and (4) A statement of the precautions, if any, that the owners should take to reduce the chance that the malfunction will occur before the defect or noncompliance is remedied. (f) An evaluation of the risk to motor vehicle safety reasonably related to the defect or noncompliance. (1) When vehicle crash is a potential occurrence, the evaluation shall include whichever of the following is appropriate: (i) A statement that the defect or noncompliance can cause vehicle crash without prior warning; or (ii) A description of whatever prior warning may occur, and a statement that if this warning is not heeded, vehicle crash can occur. (2) When vehicle crash is not the potential occurrence, the evaluation must include a statement indicating the general type of injury to occupants of the vehicle, or to persons outside the vehicle, that can result from the defect or noncompliance, and a description of whatever prior warning may occur. (g) A statement of measures to be taken to remedy the defect or noncompliance, in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section, whichever is appropriate. (1) When the manufacturer is required by the Act to remedy the defect or noncompliance without charge, or when he will voluntarily so remedy in full conformity with the Act, he shall include- (i) A statement that he will cause such defect to be remedied without charge, and whether such remedy will be by repair, replacement, or refund of the purchase price (in the case of remedy of a vehicle, less depreciation). (ii) The earliest date on which the defect or noncompliance will be remedied without charge. In the case of remedy by repair, this date shall be the earliest date on which the manufacturer reasonably expects that dealers or other service facilities will receive necessary parts and instructions. The manufacturer shall specify the last date, if any, on which he will remedy tires without charge. (iii) In the case of remedy by repair through the manufacturer's dealers or other service facilities: (A) A general description of the work involved in repairing the defect or noncompliance; and (B) The manufacturer's estimate of the time reasonably necessary to perform the labor required to correct the defect or noncompliance. (iv) In the case of remedy by repair through service facilities other than those of the manufacturer or its dealers: (A) The name and part number of each part must be added, replaced, or modified; (B) A description of any modifications that must be made to existing parts, which shall also be identified by name and part number; (C) Information as to where needed parts will be available; (D) A detailed description (including appropriate illustrations) of each step required to correct the defect or noncompliance; (E) The manufacturer's estimate of the time reasonably necessary to perform the labor required to correct the defect or noncompliance; and (F) The manufacturer's recommendations of service facilities where the owner should have the repairs performed. (v) In the case of remedy by replacement, a description of the motor vehicle or item of replacement equipment that the manufacturer will provide as a replacement for the defective or noncomplying vehicle or equipment. (vi) In the case of a remedy of a vehicle by refund of purchase price, the method or basis for the manufacturer's assessment of depreciation. (vii) A statement informing the owner that he or she may submit a complaint to the Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590; or call the toll-free Vehicle Safety Hotline at 1-888-327-4236 (TTY: 1-800-424-9153); or go to http://www.safercar.gov , if the owner believes that: (A) The manufacturer, distributor, or dealer has failed or is unable to remedy the defect or noncompliance without charge. (B) The manufacturer has failed or is unable to remedy the defect or noncompliance without charge- ( 1 ) (In the case of motor vehicles or items of replacement equipment, other than tires) within a reasonable time, which is not longer than 60 days in the case of repair after the owner's first tender to obtain repair following the earliest repair date specified in the notification, unless the period is extended by Administrator. ( 2 ) (In the case of tires) after the date specified in the notification on which replacement tires will be available. (2) When the manufacturer is not required to remedy the defect or noncompliance without charge and he will not voluntarily so remedy, the statement shall include- (i) A statement that the manufacturer is not required by the Act to remedy without charge. (ii) A statement of the extent to which the manufacturer will voluntarily remedy, including the method of remedy and any limitations and conditions imposed by the manufacturer on such remedy. (iii) The manufacturer's opinion whether the defect or noncompliance can be remedied by repair. If the manufacturer believes that repair is possible, the statement shall include the information specified in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section, except that; (A) The statement required by paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(A) of this section shall also indicate the suggested list price of each part. (B) The statement required by paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(C) of this section shall also indicate the manufacturer's estimate of the date on which the parts will be generally available. (h) Any lessor who receives a notification of a determination of a safety-related defect or noncompliance pertaining to any leased motor vehicle shall send a copy of such notice to the lessee as prescribed by &#xA7; 577.7(a)(2)(iv). This requirement applies to both initial and follow-up notifications, but does not apply where the manufacturer has notified a lessor's lessees directly. (Authority: Secs. 108, 112, and 119, Pub. L. 89-563; 80 Stat. 718; secs. 102, 103, and 104, Pub. L. 93-492, 88 Stat. 1470 (15 U.S.C. 1397, 1401, 1408, and 1411-1420); delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50) [41 FR 56816, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 46 FR 6971, Jan. 22, 1981; 46 FR 28657, May 28, 1981; 60 FR 17270, Apr. 5, 1995; 61 FR 279, Jan. 4, 1996; 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003; 70 FR 35557, June 21, 2005; 72 FR 32016, June 11, 2007; 78 FR 51422, Aug. 20, 2013; 79 FR 43678, July 28, 2014; 80 FR 55037, Sept. 14, 2015] &#xA7; 577.6 Notification pursuant to Administrator's decision. (a) Agency-ordered notification. When a manufacturer is ordered pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30118(b) to provide notification of a defect or noncompliance, he shall provide such notification in accordance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 577.5 and 577.7, except that the statement required by paragraph (c) of &#xA7; 577.5 shall indicate that the decision has been made by the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. (b) Provisional notification. When a manufacturer does not provide notification as required by paragraph (a) of this section, and an action concerning the Administrator's order to provide such notification has been filed in a United States District Court, the manufacturer shall, upon the Administrator's further order, provide in accordance with paragraph (b) of &#xA7; 577.7 a provisional notification containing the information specified in this paragraph, in the order and, where specified, the form of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(12) of this section. (1) An opening statement: &#x201C;This notice is sent to you in accordance with the requirements of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act.&#x201D; (2) Whichever of the following statements is appropriate: (i) &#x201C;The Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has decided that a defect which relates to motor vehicle safety exists in (identified motor vehicles, in the case of notification sent by a manufacturer of motor vehicles; identified replacement equipment, in the case of notification sent by a manufacturer of replacement equipment);&#x201D; or (ii) &#x201C;The Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has decided that (identified motor vehicles in the case of notification sent by a motor vehicle manufacturer; identified replacement equipment, in the case of notification sent by a manufacturer of replacement equipment) fail to conform to federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. (number and title of standard).&#x201D; (3) When the Administrator decides that the defect or noncompliance may not exist in each such vehicle or item of replacement equipment, the manufacturer may include an additional statement to that effect. (4) The statement: &#x201C;(Manufacturer's name or division) is contesting this determination in a proceeding in the Federal courts and has been required to issue this notice pending the outcome of the court proceeding.&#x201D; (5) A clear description of the Administrator's stated basis for his decision, as provided in his order, including a brief summary of the evidence and reasoning that the Administrator relied upon in making his decision. (6) A clear description of the Administrator' stated evaluation as provided in his order of the risk to motor vehicle safety reasonably related to the defect or noncompliance. (7) Any measures that the Administrator has stated in his order should be taken by the owner to avoid an unreasonable hazard resulting from the defect or noncompliance. (8) A brief summary of the evidence and reasoning upon which the manufacturer relies in contesting the Administrator's determination. (9) A statement regarding the availability of remedy and reimbursement in accordance with paragraph (b)(9)(i) or (9)(ii) of this section, whichever is appropriate. (i) When the purchase date of the vehicle or item of equipment is such that the manufacturer is required by the Act to remedy without charge or to reimburse the owner for reasonable and necessary repair expenses, he shall include- (A) A statement that the remedy will be provided without charge to the owner if the Court upholds the Administrator's decision; (B) A statement of the method of remedy. If the manufacturer has not yet determined the method of remedy, he will select either repair, replacement with an equivalent vehicle or item of replacement equipment, or refund of the purchase price (in the case of remedy of a vehicle, less depreciation); and (C) A statement that, if the Court upholds the Administrator's decision, he will reimburse the owner for any reasonable and necessary expenses that the owner incurs (not in excess of any amount specified by the Administrator) in repairing the defect or noncompliance following a date, specified by the manufacturer, which shall not be later than the date of the Administrator's order to issue this notification. (ii) When the manufacturer is not required either to remedy without charge or to reimburse, he shall include- (A) A statement that he is not required to remedy or reimburse, or (B) A statement of the extent to which he will voluntarily remedy or reimburse, including the method of remedy, if then known, and any limitations and conditions on such remedy or reimbursement. (10) A statement indicating whether, in the manufacturer's opinion, the defect or noncompliance can be remedied by repair. When the manufacturer believes that such remedy is feasible, the statement shall include: (i) A general description of the work and the manufacturer's estimate of the costs involved in repairing the defect or noncompliance; (ii) Information on where needed parts and instructions for repairing the defect or noncompliance will be available, including the manufacturer's estimate of the day on which they will be generally available; (iii) The manufacturer's estimate of the time reasonably necessary to perform the labor required to correct the defect or noncompliance; and (iv) The manufacturer's recommendations of service facilities where the owner could have the repairs performed, including (in the case of a manufacturer required to reimburse if the Administrator's decision is upheld in the court proceeding) at least one service facility for whose charges the owner will be fully reimbursed if the Administrator's decision is upheld. (11) A statement that further notice will be mailed by the manufacturer to the owner if the Administrator's decision is upheld in the court proceeding. (12) An address of the manufacturer where the owner may write to obtain additional information regarding the notification and remedy. (c) Post-litigation notification. When a manufacturer does not provide notification as required in paragraph (a) of this section and the Administrator prevails in an action commenced with respect to such notification, the manufacturer shall, upon the Administrator's further order, provide notification in accordance with paragraph (b) of &#xA7; 577.7 containing the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, except that- (1) The statement required by paragraph (c) of &#xA7; 577.5 shall indicate that the decision has been made by the Administrator and that his decision has been upheld in a proceeding in the Federal courts; and (2) When a provisional notification was issued regarding the defect or noncompliance and the manufacturer is required under the Act to reimburse- (i) The manufacturer shall state that he will reimburse the owner for any reasonable and necessary expenses that the owner incurred (not in excess of any amount specified by the Administrator) for repair of the defect or noncompliance of the vehicle or item of equipment on or after the date on which provisional notification was ordered to be issued and on or before a date not sooner than the date on which this notification is received by the owner. The manufacturer shall determine and specify both dates. (ii) The statement required by paragraph (g)(1)(vii) of &#xA7; 577.5 shall also inform the owner that he may submit a complaint to the Administrator if the owner believes that the manufacturer has failed to reimburse adequately. (3) If the manufacturer is not required under the Act to reimburse, he shall include- (i) A statement that he is not required to reimburse, or (ii) When he will voluntarily reimburse, a statement of the extent to which he will do so, including any limitations and conditions on such reimbursement. [41 FR 56816, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 17271, Apr. 5, 1995; 80 FR 55037, Sept. 14, 2015] &#xA7; 577.7 Time and manner of notification. (a) The notification required by &#xA7; 577.5 shall- (1) Be furnished no later than 60 days from the date the manufacturer files its defect or noncompliance information report under part 573. In the event that the remedy for the defect or noncompliance is not available at the time of notification, the manufacturer shall issue a second notification within a reasonable time and in accordance with the requirements of this part once that remedy is available. The Administrator may order a manufacturer to send the notification to owners on a specific date where the Administrator finds, after consideration of available information and the views of the manufacturer, that such notification is in the public interest. The factors that the Administrator may consider include, but are not limited to, the severity of the safety risk; the likelihood of occurrence of the defect or noncompliance; whether there is something that an owner can do to reduce either the likelihood of occurrence of the defect or noncompliance or the severity of the consequences; whether there will be a delay in the availability of the remedy from the manufacturer; and the anticipated length of any such delay. (2) Be accomplished- (i) In the case of a notification required to be sent by a motor vehicle manufacturer, by first class mail to each person who is registered under State law as the owner of the vehicle and whose name and address are reasonably ascertainable by the manufacturer through State records or other sources available to him. If the owner cannot be reasonably ascertained, the manufacturer shall notify the most recent purchaser known to the manufacturer. The manufacturer shall also provide notification to each lessee of a leased motor vehicle that is covered by an agreement between the manufacturer and a lessor under which the manufacturer is to notify lessees directly of safety-related defects and noncompliances. (ii) In the case of a notification required to be sent by a replacement equipment manufacturer- (A) By first class mail to the most recent purchaser known to the manufacturer, and (B) (Except in the case of a tire) if decided by the Administrator to be required for motor vehicle safety, by public notice in such manner as the Administrator may require after consultation with the manufacturer. (iii) In the case of a manufacturer required to provide notification concerning any defective or noncomplying tire, by first class or certified mail. (iv) In the case of a notification to be sent by a lessor to a lessee of a leased motor vehicle, by first-class mail to the most recent lessee known to the lessor. Such notification shall be mailed within ten days of the lessor's receipt of the notification from the vehicle manufacturer. (b) The notification required by any paragraph of &#xA7; 577.6 shall be provided: (1) Within 60 days after the manufacturer's receipt of the Administrator's order to provide the notification, except that the notification shall be furnished within a shorter or longer period if the Administrator incorporates in his order a finding that such period is in the public interest; and (2) In the manner and to the recipient specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (c) The notification required by &#xA7; 577.13 shall- (1) Be furnished within a reasonable time after the manufacturer decides that a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety or a noncompliance exists. In the case of defects or noncompliances that present an immediate and substantial threat to motor vehicle safety, the manufacturer shall transmit this notice to dealers and distributors within three business days of its transmittal of the Defect and Noncompliance Information Report under 49 CFR 573.6 to NHTSA, except that when the manufacturer transmits the notice by other than electronic means, the manufacturer shall transmit this notice to dealers and distributors within five business days of its transmittal of the Defect and Noncompliance Information Report to NHTSA. In all other cases, the notification shall be provided in accordance with the schedule submitted to the agency pursuant to &#xA7; 573.6(c)(8)(ii), unless that schedule is modified by the Administrator. The Administrator may direct a manufacturer to send the notification to dealers on a specific date if the Administrator finds, after consideration of available information and the views of the manufacturer, that such notification is in the public interest. The factors that the Administrator may consider include, but are not limited to, the severity of the safety risk; the likelihood of occurrence of the defect or noncompliance; the time frame in which the defect or noncompliance may manifest itself; availability of an interim remedial action by the owner; whether a dealer inspection would identify vehicles or items of equipment that contain the defect or noncompliance; and the time frame in which the manufacturer plans to provide the notification and the remedy to its dealers. (2) Be accomplished- (i) In the case of a notification required to be sent by a motor vehicle manufacturer, by certified mail, verifiable electronic means such as receipts or logs from electronic mail or satellite distribution system, or other more expeditious and verifiable means to all dealers and distributors of the vehicles that contain the defect or noncompliance. (ii) In the case of a notification required to be sent by a manufacturer of replacement equipment or tires, by certified mail, verifiable electronic means such as receipts or logs from electronic mail or satellite distribution system, or other more expeditious and verifiable means to all dealers and distributors of the product that are known to the manufacturer. (iii) In those cases where a manufacturer of motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment provided the recalled product(s) to a group of dealers or distributors through a central office, notification to that central office will be deemed to be notice to all dealers and distributors within that group. (iv) In those cases in which a manufacturer of motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment has provided the recalled product to independent dealers through independent distributors, the manufacturer may satisfy its notification responsibilities by providing the information required under this section to its distributors. In such cases, the manufacturer must also instruct those distributors to transmit a copy of the manufacturer's notification to known distributors and retail outlets along the distribution chain within five working days from its receipt. (d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, where the recall is being conducted pursuant to an order issued by the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b), notification required by &#xA7; 577.13 shall be given on or before the date prescribed in the Administrator's order. [41 FR 56816, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 17271, Apr. 5, 1995; 69 FR 34959, June 23, 2004; 70 FR 38814, July 6, 2005; 78 FR 51422, Aug. 20, 2013; 79 FR 43678, July 28, 2014] &#xA7; 577.8 Disclaimers. (a) A notification sent pursuant to &#xA7;&#xA7; 577.5, 577.6, 577.9 or 577.10 regarding a defect which relates to motor vehicle safety shall not, except as specifically provided in this part, contain any statement or implication that there is no defect, that the defect does not relate to motor vehicle safety, or that the defect is not present in the owner's or lessee's vehicle or item of replacement equipment. This section also applies to any notification sent to a lessor or directly to a lessee by a manufacturer. (b) A notification sent pursuant to &#xA7;&#xA7; 577.5, 577.6, 577.9 or 577.10 regarding a noncompliance with an applicable motor vehicle safety standard shall not, except as specifically provided in this part, contain any statement or implication that there is not a noncompliance, or that the noncompliance is not present in the owner's or lessee's vehicle or item of replacement equipment. This section also applies to any notification sent to a lessor or directly to a lessee by a manufacturer. [60 FR 17272, Apr. 5, 1995] &#xA7; 577.9 Conformity to statutory requirements. A notification that does not conform to the requirements of this part is a violation of the Act. &#xA7; 577.10 Follow-up notification. (a) If, based on quarterly reports submitted pursuant to &#xA7; 573.7 of this part or other available information, the Administrator decides that a notification of a safety-related defect of a noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard sent by a manufacturer has not resulted in an adequate number of vehicles or items of equipment being returned for remedy, the Administrator may direct the manufacturer to send a follow-up notification in accordance with this section. The scope, timing, form, and content of such follow-up notification will be established by the Administrator, in consultation with the manufacturer, to maximize the number of owners, purchasers, and lessees who will present their vehicles or items of equipment for remedy. (b) The Administrator may consider the following factors in deciding whether or not to require a manufacturer to undertake a follow-up notification campaign: (1) The percentage of covered vehicles or items of equipment that have been presented for the remedy; (2) The amount of time that has elapsed since the prior notification(s); (3) The likelihood that a follow-up notification will increase the number of vehicles or items of equipment receiving the remedy; (4) The seriousness of the safety risk from the defect or noncompliance; (5) Whether the prior notification(s) undertaken by the manufacturer complied with the requirements of the statute and regulations; and (6) Such other factors as are consistent with the purpose of the statute. (c) A manufacturer shall be required to provide a follow-up notification under this section only with respect to vehicles or items of equipment that have not been returned for remedy pursuant to the prior notification(s). (d) Except where the Administrator determines otherwise, the follow-up notification shall be sent to the same categories of recipients that received the prior notification(s). (e) A follow-up notification must include: (1) A statement that identifies it as a follow-up to an earlier communication; (2) A statement urging the recipient to present the vehicle or item of equipment for remedy; and (3) Except as determined by the Administrator, the information required to be included in the initial notification. (f) The manufacturer shall mark the outside of each envelope in which it sends a follow-up notification in a manner which meets the requirements of &#xA7; 577.5(a) of this part. (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Administrator may authorize the use of other media besides first-class mail for a follow-up notification. [60 FR 17272, Apr. 5, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 18142, Apr. 15, 2003] &#xA7; 577.11 Reimbursement notification. (a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e) of this section, when a manufacturer of motor vehicles or replacement equipment is required to provide notice in accordance with &#xA7;&#xA7; 577.5 or 577.6, in addition to complying with other sections of this part, the manufacturer shall notify owners that they may be eligible to receive reimbursement for the cost of obtaining a pre-notification remedy of a problem associated with a defect or noncompliance consistent with the manufacturer's reimbursement plan submitted to NHTSA pursuant to &#xA7;&#xA7; 573.6(c)(8)(i) and 573.13 of this chapter. (b) The manufacturer's notification shall include a statement, following the items required by &#xA7; 577.5 or &#xA7; 577.6, that (1) Refers to the possible eligibility for reimbursement for the cost of repair or replacement; and (2) Describes how a consumer may obtain information about reimbursement from the manufacturer; (c) The information referred to in &#xA7; 577.11(b)(2) of this part shall be provided in one of the following ways: (1) In an enclosure to the notification under &#xA7; 577.5 or &#xA7; 577.6 that provides the information described in &#xA7; 577.11(d), consistent with the manufacturer's reimbursement plan; or (2) Through a toll-free telephone number (with TTY capability) identified in the notification that provides the information described in &#xA7; 577.11(d), consistent with the manufacturer's reimbursement plan. (3) For notifications of defects or noncompliances in item of motor vehicle equipment that are in a form other than a letter to a specific owner or purchaser, if the manufacturer does not otherwise maintain a toll-free telephone number for the use of consumers, the manufacturer may refer claimants to a non-toll-free telephone number (with TTY capability) if it also specifies a mailing address at which owners can obtain the relevant information regarding the manufacturer's reimbursement plan. (d) The information to be provided under paragraph (c) of this section must: (1) Identify the vehicle and/or equipment that is the subject of the recall and the underlying problem; (2) State that the manufacturer has a program for reimbursing pre-notification remedies and identify the type of remedy eligible for reimbursement; (3) Identify any limits on the time period in which the repair or replacement of the recalled vehicle or equipment must have occurred; (4) Identify any restrictions on eligibility for reimbursement that the manufacturer is imposing (as limited by &#xA7; 573.13 (d) of this chapter); (5) Specify all necessary documentation that must be submitted to obtain reimbursement; (6) Explain how to submit a claim for reimbursement of a pre-notification remedy; and (7) Identify the office and address of the manufacturer where a claim can be submitted by mail and any authorized dealers or facilities where a claimant may submit a claim for reimbursement. (e) The manufacturer is not required to provide notification regarding reimbursement under this section if NHTSA finds, based upon a written request by a manufacturer accompanied by supporting information, views, and arguments, that all covered vehicles are under warranty or that no person would be eligible for reimbursement under &#xA7; 573.13 of this chapter. [67 FR 64065, Oct. 17, 2002] &#xA7; 577.12 Notification pursuant to an accelerated remedy program. (a) When the Administrator requires a manufacturer to accelerate its remedy program under &#xA7; 573.14 of this chapter, or when a manufacturer agrees with a request from the Administrator that it accelerate its remedy program in advance of being required to do so, in addition to complying with other sections of this part, the manufacturer shall provide notification in accordance with this section. (b) Except as provided elsewhere in this section or when the Administrator determines otherwise, the notification under this section shall be sent to the same recipients as provided by &#xA7; 577.7. If no notification has been provided to owners pursuant to this part, the provisions required by this section may be combined with the notification under &#xA7;&#xA7; 577.5 or 577.6. A manufacturer need only provide a notification under this section to owners of vehicles or items of equipment for which the defect or noncompliance has not been remedied. (c) The manufacturer's notification shall include the following: (1) If there was a prior notification, a statement that identifies that notification and states that this notification supplements it; (2) When the accelerated remedy program has been required by the Administrator, a statement that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has required the manufacturer to accelerate its remedy program; (3) A statement of how the program has been accelerated (e.g., by expanding the sources of replacement parts and/or expanding the number of authorized repair facilities); (4) Where applicable, a statement that the owner may elect to obtain the recall remedy using designated service facilities other than those that are owned or franchised by the manufacturer or are the manufacturer's authorized dealers, and an explanation of how the owner may arrange for service at those other facilities; (5) Where applicable, a statement that the owner may elect to obtain the recall remedy using specified replacement parts or equipment from sources other than the manufacturer; (6) Where applicable, a statement indicating whether the owner will be required to pay an alternative facility and/or parts supplier, subject to reimbursement by the manufacturer; and (7) If an owner will be required to pay an alternative facility and/or parts supplier, a statement that the owner will be eligible to have those expenditures reimbursed by the manufacturer, and a description of how a consumer may obtain information about reimbursement from the manufacturer consistent with &#xA7; 577.11(b)(2), (c) and (d). [67 FR 72393, Dec. 5, 2002] &#xA7; 577.13 Notification to dealers and distributors. (a) The notification to dealers and distributors of a safety-related defect or a noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard shall contain a clear statement that identifies the notification as being a safety recall notice, an identification of the motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment covered by the recall, a description of the defect or noncompliance, and a brief evaluation of the risk to motor vehicle safety related to the defect or noncompliance. The notification shall also include a complete description of the recall remedy, and the estimated date on which the remedy will be available. Information required by this paragraph that is not available at the time of the original notification shall be provided as it becomes available. (b) The notification shall also include an advisory stating that it is a violation of Federal law for a dealer to deliver a new motor vehicle or any new or used item of motor vehicle equipment (including a tire) covered by the notification under a sale or lease until the defect or noncompliance is remedied. (c) The manufacturer shall, upon request of the Administrator, demonstrate that it sent the required notification to each of its known dealers and distributors and the date of such notification. [69 FR 34960, June 23, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 38815, July 6, 2005] &#xA7; 577.14 Labeling for owner notification letter envelope. (a) Purpose and scope -The purpose of this section is to supply vehicle and equipment manufacturers, including manufacturers of tires and child safety seats, with the label required to be shown on the envelopes of safety recall notification letters mailed to owners pursuant to &#xA7; 577.5. This label shall not be used for any purpose other than compliance with &#xA7; 577.5 by any entity outside of the Department of Transportation. (b) Required label information and format. (1) The label depicted in this section must be printed on the front of the safety recall owner notification envelope. The content, format, and sequence of this label are depicted in Figure 1 of this section. A Spanish version of this label, for owners located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or the Canal Zone, can be found in Figure 2 of this section. (2) The text &#x201C;IMPORTANT SAFETY RECALL INFORMATION&#x201D; must be printed in capital letters, have a minimum font size of 10 point, and be printed in white text on a red background. Also, this text must be centered horizontally and located near the top of the label. The text &#x201C;Issued in Accordance With Federal Law&#x201D; must have a minimum font size of 10 point, be printed in black text on a white background, and be located directly beneath the preceding text, also centered horizontally within the label. (3) The logo of the U.S. Department of Transportation must be located at the bottom, left-hand corner of the label. The logo of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration must be located at the bottom, right-hand corner of the label. Each logo should be printed in black color with a white background. (c) Required label size -The label depicted in this paragraph must be 1 inch in height and 3 inches in length. [79 FR 43678, July 28, 2014]