PART 1132-PROTESTS REQUESTING SUSPENSION AND INVESTIGATION OF COLLECTIVE RATEMAKING ACTIONS Authority: 49 U.S.C. 1321, 13301(f), and 13703. Source: 62 FR 50885, Sept. 29, 1997, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 1132.1 Protest against collective ratemaking actions. (a) Content. The protested collective ratemaking action sought to be suspended, whether or not contained in a tariff filed with the Board, should be identified by making reference to: The name of the publishing carrier or collective ratemaking organization; the identification of the tariff, if applicable, or the identification of the collective ratemaking action publication if it is not contained in a tariff filed with the Board; the specific items or particular provisions protested; and the effective date of the tariff or other collective ratemaking action publication. Reference should also be made to the tariff or collective ratemaking action, and the specific provisions proposed to be superseded. The protest should state the grounds in support thereof, and indicate in what respect the protested collective ratemaking action is considered to be unlawful. Such protests will be considered as addressed to the discretion of the Board. Should a protestant desire to proceed further against a collective ratemaking action which is not suspended, or which has been suspended and the suspension vacated, a separate later formal complaint or petition should be filed. (b) When filed. Protests against, and requests for suspension of, collective ratemaking actions will not be considered unless made in writing and filed with the Board at Washington, DC. If the protestant desires action by the Board before the effective date of the collective action, protests and requests for suspension shall reach the Board at least 12 days (except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section) before such effective date. If the protested collective ratemaking action is already in effect, or if the protestant does not desire action before its effective date, protests and requests for suspension can be filed at any time. (c) Copies; service. Every protest or reply filed under this section should be directed to the attention of the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board. One copy of each protest or reply filed under this section simultaneously must be served upon the publishing carrier or collective ratemaking organization, and upon other persons known by protestant to be interested. (d) Reply to protest. A reply to a protest filed at least 12 days before the effective date of proposed collective action provisions must reach the Board not later than the fourth working day prior to the scheduled effective date of the protested provisions unless otherwise provided. [62 FR 50885, Sept. 29, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 52908, Oct. 15, 2009; 84 FR 12944, Apr. 3, 2019] &#xA7; 1132.2 Procedures in certain suspension matters. (a) A petition for reconsideration may be filed by any interested person within 20 days after the date of service of a Board decision which results in an order for: (1) Investigation and suspension of collective ratemaking actions, or (2) Investigation (without suspension) of collective ratemaking actions. (b) Any interested person may file and serve a reply to any petition for reconsideration permitted under paragraph (a) of this section within 20 days after the filing of such petition with the Board, but if the facts stated in any such petition disclose a need for accelerated action, such action may be taken before expiration of the time allowed for reply. In all other respects, such petitions and replies thereto will be governed by the rules of general applicability of the Rules of Practice.