PART 1511-AVIATION SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE FEE Authority: 49 U.S.C. 114, 40113, 44901, and 44940. Source: 67 FR 7929, Feb. 20, 2002, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 1511.1 Applicability and purpose. (a) This part prescribes the imposition of a fee on air carriers and foreign air carriers in air transportation to pay for the costs of providing U.S. civil aviation security services as described in 49 U.S.C. 44940. (b) For purposes of this part, the fee will be described as the &#x201C;Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee.&#x201D; &#xA7; 1511.3 Definitions. The following definitions apply for purposes of this part. For other definitions that may be applicable to this part refer to 49 U.S.C. 40102. Administrator means the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration or the Administrator's designee. Air transportation means the carriage by passenger aircraft of persons or property for compensation or hire in intrastate air transportation, interstate air transportation, or foreign air transportation. Aircraft means a device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air. Fiscal year means the fiscal year for the Federal government, which begins each year October 1 and ends on September 30. The fiscal year is designated by the calendar year in which it ends, e.g., fiscal year 2002 is the year beginning October 1, 2001, and ending September 30, 2002. Foreign air transportation means air transportation between a place in the United States and any place outside of the United States. Interstate air transportation means air transportation within the United States. Intrastate air transportation means air transportation wholly within the same State of the United States. Passenger aircraft means an aircraft that is used to transport passengers in air transportation. Property means mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and any other articles transported by passenger aircraft operated by an air carrier or foreign air carrier in air transportation, but excluding property transported under the &#x201C;Known Shipper Program.&#x201D; [67 FR 7929, Feb. 20, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 49720, Aug. 19, 2003] &#xA7; 1511.5 Imposition of Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees. (a) Effective February 18, 2002, an Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee will be imposed on air carriers and foreign air carriers engaged in air transportation. (b) The amount of the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee for each fiscal year will not exceed, in the aggregate, the amounts paid in calendar year 2000 by air carriers and foreign air carriers for the screening of passengers and property transported by passenger aircraft in the United States, as determined by the Administrator. (c) For fiscal years 2002, 2003 and 2004, the amount of the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee imposed on each air carrier and foreign air carrier will not exceed the amount each such carrier paid for the screening of passengers and property transported by passenger aircraft in the United States during calendar year 2000, as determined by the Administrator. (d) Each air carrier and foreign air carrier that paid for the screening of passengers and property in calendar year 2000 must fully complete the form set forth in Appendix A to this part titled, &#x201C;Calendar Year 2000 Costs Paid for Passenger and Property Screening,&#x201D; and submit the completed form to the Transportation Security Administration by May 18, 2002. (e) In the case of a merger, acquisition, corporate restructuring, reorganization, or name change involving an air carrier or foreign air carrier that paid for the screening of passengers and property transported by passenger aircraft in the United States during calendar year 2000, the successor entity must include those screening costs in Appendix A of this part and submit those costs together with its own costs on one form in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. Any other air carrier or foreign air carrier that paid for the screening of passengers and property transported by passenger aircraft in the United States during calendar year 2000 but is no longer providing air transportation must also complete the form set forth in Appendix A and submit the form in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (f) The Administrator has determined that the information submitted pursuant to this part and 49 U.S.C. 44940(a)(2)(B) is Sensitive Security Information and is subject to the non-disclosure requirements of 49 U.S.C. 40119(b). (g) The amount of the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee imposed on each air carrier and foreign air carrier will be redetermined for fiscal years 2005 and beyond, and such redeterminations may be based on the carrier's respective market share or any other appropriate measure in lieu of the measure provided in paragraph (c) of this section. &#xA7; 1511.7 Remittance of Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees. (a) No later than May 31, 2002, each air carrier and foreign air carrier engaged in air transportation must remit to TSA. (1) 3.273 percent of the total amount the carrier has indicated in Appendix A of this part, or an amount as otherwise determined by the Administrator, which will represent the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee due for the period running from February 18 through February 28, 2002; and, (2) 16.666 percent of the total amount the carrier has indicated in Appendix A of this part, or an amount as otherwise determined by the Administrator, which will represent the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee due for period running from March 1 through April 30, 2002. (b) Each air carrier and foreign air carrier engaged in air transportation must remit to TSA 8.333 percent of the total amount the carrier has indicated in Appendix A of this part, or an amount as otherwise determined by the Administrator, by the last calendar day of each month following May 2002 up to and including September 2004. (c) Each air carrier and foreign air carrier engaged in air transportation must remit to TSA 8.333 percent of the total amount as determined by the Administrator pursuant to section 1511.5(g) of this part by the last calendar day of each month following September 2004. (d) Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees must be payable to the &#x201C;Transportation Security Administration&#x201D; in U.S. currency and drawn on a U.S. bank. (1) Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees of $1,000 or more must be remitted by electronic funds transfer. (2) Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees under $1,000 may be remitted by electronic funds transfer, check, money order, wire transfer, or draft. (e) Air carriers and foreign air carriers are responsible for paying any bank processing charges on Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees remitted under this part when such charges are assessed on the U.S. government. [67 FR 7929, Feb. 20, 2002; 67 FR 8579, Feb. 25, 2002] &#xA7; 1511.9 [Reserved] &#xA7; 1511.11 Federal oversight. (a) Upon request, air carriers and foreign air carriers must allow any authorized representative of the Administrator, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation, the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security, or the Comptroller General of the United States to audit or review any of the books and records and provide any other information necessary to verify that: (1) The information submitted pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44940(a)(2)(B) and this part, including that provided in Appendix A, is true and correct; or (2) The Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees were remitted consistent with this part. [67 FR 7929, Feb. 20, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 49720, Aug. 19, 2003] &#xA7; 1511.13 Enforcement. (a) In addition to any other remedies allowed by law, willful falsification by any party, directly or indirectly, of information provided by an air carrier or foreign air carrier pursuant to this part, including information submitted in Appendix A as required by section 1511.5 of this part, may be prosecuted criminally resulting in a fine and/or imprisonment under 18 U.S.C 1001. (b) An air carrier's or foreign air carrier's failure to comply with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 44940 or the provisions of this part may result in a claim due the United States by the carrier, which claim shall be collectible pursuant to 31 U.S.C. Chapter 37 and the Department of Transportation's implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 89. &#xA7; 1511.15 Cessation of the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee. Notwithstanding 49 CFR 1511.5 and 1511.7, or any other provision of this part, beginning 11:59 p.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) on September 30, 2014, an air carrier or foreign air carrier engaged in air transportation will not incur any further obligations to make payments to TSA that otherwise would be required under this part. Any unremitted Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees incurred by an air carrier or foreign air carrier before 11:59 p.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) on September 30, 2014, are due by October 31, 2014. [79 FR 56668, Sept. 23, 2014] Appendix A to Part 1511-Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee Instructions General guidance When filling out this form, the responding air carrier or foreign air carrier shall include all costs incurred in calendar year 2000 by that air carrier for the screening of passengers and property. Costs are those attributed to the screening of passengers and property in the United States for both flights within the United States and flights from the United States to foreign destinations. Reported costs must be consistent with the air carrier's financial accounting information reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Where actual costs of screening passengers and property cannot be directly identified through an air carrier's accounting system, the air carrier shall use an appropriate alternate cost assignment methodology. Documentation that explains and supports the assignment methodology used, the applicable pool and the allocation basis must be made available upon request. For costs related to capitalized property, please report the associated depreciation expense incurred during calendar year 2000. Capitalization policy must also be made available upon request. To the extent necessary, the reporting air carrier may aggregate those specific costs that have been incurred but cannot be stated in the detailed cost categories requested by this form. However, all of the costs identified by this form must be included in the total calculations. In addition, explanations regarding costs that have been aggregated need to be provided. Costs reported in Appendix A do not need to include costs that may have been incurred for a position higher than those of the air carrier's director of security (or equivalent). Costs incurred for higher positions, such as those of the air carrier's chief executive officer, do not need to be included. When including cost information on acquired and/or merged air carriers, the successor air carrier must specify the names of all of such entities whose calendar year 2000 passenger and property screening costs are included in that air carrier's submission as Appendix A. The costs listed below are to be in US dollars, rounded to the nearest dollar. Place a zero in the appropriate box to indicate cost categories in which the air carrier did not incur costs for passenger and property screening in calendar year 2000. Supporting Notes Examples of cost types that appear in the supporting notes below are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to set forth all relevant costs that must be reported by air carriers and foreign air carriers. In submitting information to TSA, air carriers and foreign air carriers must submit all of their relevant costs, regardless of whether those costs have been specifically illustrated in the notes. Submission of Data This form will be available electronically from the Department of Transportation's website at www.dot.gov. Air carriers are asked to return the completed form by certified mail to: Chief Financial Officer, Transportation Security Administration, Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street SW, Washington, DC 20590. Please also submit the same information in Microsoft Word either on a computer disk or by e-mail to TSA-Fees@ost.dot.gov. Confidentiality of Data Consistent with 49 CFR &#xA7; 1511.5(f), information submitted in Appendix A is deemed to be Sensitive Security Information and will be so protected from public disclosure under 49 U.S.C. 40119(b). In addition, confidential business information and economic information provided in Appendix A will be protected from public disclosure, as appropriate, under 5 U.S.C. &#xA7; 552 (the Freedom of Information Act), 14 CFR &#xA7; 302.12, and 18 U.S.C. &#xA7; 1905. Requests for confidentiality must be filed with the Office of the General Counsel, Department of Transportation (C-10), 400 Seventh Street, SW, Room 10102, Washington, DC 20590. Supporting Notes a. These are costs that the air carrier incurred directly. Includes costs incurred for air carrier personnel salaries and benefits, equipment owned, leased or rented directly by that air carrier and any other costs directly incurred. b. These are costs that the air carrier incurred through contracts with security firms. Includes personnel, equipment and other costs incurred through contracts with third party security companies. c. These are costs that the air carrier incurred through other means. Includes costs incurred through air carrier security consortiums. 1. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of checkpoint screening personnel. 2. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of exit lane monitors. 3. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of cargo screeners. 4. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of checked baggage screeners. 5. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of all baggage runners who move property such as baggage to and from screening areas. 6. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of all supervisory personnel, including Checkpoint Screening Supervisors. 7. All associated expensed non-labor costs including computers, communications equipment, time management systems, supplies, parking, identification badging, furniture, fixtures, and travel. 8. All costs of performing required background investigations on all screening personnel and supervisors. Screening personnel and supervisors includes checkpoint screening personnel, exit lane monitors, cargo screeners, checked baggage screeners, baggage runners, and their supervisors. 9. All costs incurred for the training and testing of all screening personnel and supervisors, including initial, recurrent and remedial training. Includes any computer-based training and the development of training programs for the screening of persons and property as well as any travel, room and board, and all other such expenses related to training. 10. The costs of implementing and maintaining training records for all screening personnel and supervisors. 11. The costs of completing evaluations for all screening personnel and supervisors. 12. All costs for drug and alcohol testing as well as any associated counseling and/or treatment for all screening personnel and supervisors. 13. All costs of renting, purchasing, maintaining, and/or cleaning of uniforms and any related equipment such as flashlights and batons for all screening personnel and supervisors. 14. All costs incurred by air carriers for the use of canines and their handlers used for the screening of persons and property. 15. All costs associated with obtaining security clearances for personnel relating to the screening of persons and property. 16. All costs associated with the purchase, installation, and testing of all screening equipment. In instances where the equipment is capitalized, provide the depreciation expense in lieu of costs associated with purchase, installation, and final acceptance testing. This includes such equipment as Metal Detection Devices, Hand Wands, X-ray screening machines, Explosives Trace Detection Devices, Explosives Detection Systems, or any other such similar technologies. Includes any costs incurred or depreciation costs recognized in calendar year 2000 for the modification and/or construction of any facility needed to accommodate screening, including architecture and engineering. Also includes the costs of any refurbishment and/or modernization of the equipment. 17. Costs of operating, maintaining, and calibrating installed screening equipment. This includes such equipment as Metal Detection Devices, Hand Wands, X-ray screening machines, Explosives Trace Detection Devices, Explosives Detection Systems, or any other such similar technologies. Includes such costs as test objects and X-ray radiation surveys, electricity costs and maintenance contract costs incurred for the operations of such equipment. 18. Costs of maintaining integrity of sterile areas. Includes costs of opening sterile areas, emergency evacuations of sterile areas, and re-screenings not included elsewhere. 19. The cost of purchase or rent, installation, testing, and maintenance of checkpoint signs, barriers, lane markers, and exit lane doors. 20. Any additional costs for special screening such as for disabled passengers, VIP passengers, classified and/or high value items. 21. All security company contract costs for the screening of persons and property that cannot be detailed into any other cost category. 22. All direct costs for the real estate utilized for the screening of persons and property. Includes space at airports for the performance of these functions, as well as such space used for break rooms, private screening rooms, storages space, training rooms, and office space. Also includes appropriate space for the oversight of the screening functions outside of airports such as in headquarters or regional offices. 23. All costs for utilities used for screening. Includes electricity, heating/ventilation/cooling, and telecommunications costs not elsewhere specified. 24. All costs incurred for the Ground Security Coordinator's oversight of the screening functions. Includes personnel salaries, benefits, retirement, training, and non-labor costs. 25. All air carrier head office, regional, or airport specific costs associated with the administration and oversight of screening not elsewhere specified. Includes personnel salaries, benefits, retirement, training, and non-labor costs. 26. All costs associated with the administration and oversight of screening contracts. Includes personnel, benefits, retirement, training, and non-labor costs. 27. All costs not elsewhere specified for background audit checks for all screeners and supervisors. 28. All legal support costs incurred during calendar year 2000 relating to aviation security screening. Includes legal assistance for the implementation and execution of security screening contracts. 29. All costs for accounting and financial services incurred for the support of the screening functions. 30. Includes all labor and non-labor costs for such items as human resource administration, clerical assistance, information technology, and other support functions related to screening. 31. All insurance costs relating to screening. Includes worker's compensation and general liability insurance. 32. All costs incurred by the air carriers for law enforcement personnel costs that were reimbursed by the air carriers for services performed in connection with the screening of persons and property. 33. All costs associated with the recruitment of screening personnel and supervisors. Includes signing bonuses, travel, and other recruitment expenses. 34. Any costs incurred for fees charged by other organizations for the management of contracts for the screening of persons and property. 35. Any costs incurred not elsewhere specified during calendar year 2000 for the screening of passengers and property. These costs should be itemized on a separate sheet. Includes any fines or monetary penalties incurred for screening as well as any profit/bonuses paid to contractors for screening services not included elsewhere on the form.