PART 529-MANUFACTURERS OF MULTISTAGE AUTOMOBILES Authority: Sec. 301, Pub. L. 94-163, 80 Stat. 901 (15 U.S.C. 2001); delegation of authority at 41 FR 25015, June 22, 1976. Source: 42 FR 38372, July 28, 1977, unless otherwise noted. &#xA7; 529.1 Scope and purpose. This part determines, in cases where more than one person is the manufacturer of an automobile, which person is to be treated as the manufacturer for purposes of compliance with Title V of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2001 et seq. ) and rules issued thereunder. &#xA7; 529.2 Applicability. This part applies to incomplete automobile manufacturers, intermediate manufacturers, and final-stage manufacturers of automobiles that are manufactured in two or more stages. &#xA7; 529.3 Definitions. (a) Statutory terms. (1) The term automobile is used as defined in section 501 of the Act and in accordance with the determinations in 49 CFR part 523. (2) The terms manufacture, manufacturer, and fuel economy are used as defined in section 501 of the Act. (b) Other terms. (1) Act means the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (Pub. L. 92-513), as amended by the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (Pub. L. 94-163). (2) Completed automobile means an automobile that requires no further manufacturing operations to perform its intended function, other than the addition of readily attachable components, such as mirrors or tire and rim assemblies, or minor finishing operations such as painting. (3) Curb weight is defined the same as vehicle curb weight in 40 CFR part 86. (4) Final-stage manufacturer means a person who performs such manufacturing operations on an incomplete automobile that it becomes a completed automobile. (5) Frontal area is used as defined in 40 CFR 86.079-2. (6) Incomplete automobile means an assemblage consisting, as a minimum, of frame and chassis structure, power train, steering system, suspension system, and braking system to the extent that those systems are to be part of the completed automobile, that requires further manufacturing operations, other than the addition of readily attachable components, such as mirrors or tire and rim assemblies, or minor finishing operations such as painting, to become a completed automobile. (7) Incomplete automobile manufacturer means a person who manufactures an incomplete automobile by assembling components none of which, taken separately, constitute a complete automobile. (8) Intermediate manufacturer means a person, other than the incomplete automobile manufacturer or the final-stage manufacturer, who performs manufacturing operations on an incomplete automobile. [42 FR 38372, July 28, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 39983, Aug. 8, 1977] &#xA7; 529.4 Requirements for incomplete automobile manufacturers. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, &#xA7;&#xA7; 529.5 and 529.6, each incomplete automobile manufacturer is considered, with respect to multistage automobiles incorporating its incomplete automobiles, the manufacturer of the multistage automobiles for purposes of the requirements of Title V and rules issued thereunder. (b) Each incomplete automobile manufacturer shall furnish with each of its incomplete automobiles, when it is delivered to the subsequent manufacturer, (1) a document that contains the following information- (i) Name and mailing address of the incomplete automobile manufacturer. (ii) Month and year during which the incomplete automobile manufacturer performed its last manufacturing operation on the incomplete automobile. (iii) Identification of the incomplete automobile or group of incomplete automobiles to which the document applies. The identification may be by serial number or otherwise, but it must be sufficient to enable a subsequent manufacturer to ascertain positively that the document applies to a particular incomplete automobile even if the document is not attached to that automobile. (iv) Fuel economy values determined by the incomplete automobile manufacturer for the automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600 and a statement that a fuel economy label containing those values has been prepared in accordance with Environmental Protection Agency regulation by the manufacturer identified in the document. (v) Maximum curb weight that may not be exceeded by a subsequent manufacturer without invalidating the fuel economy values determined by the incomplete automobile manufacturer. (vi) Maximum frontal area that may not be exceeded by a subsequent manufacturer without invalidating the fuel economy values determined by the incomplete automobile manufacturer. (vii) Whether the fuel economy values have been computed with the road load horsepower set to take into account the presence of air conditioning. (2) A fuel economy label conforming with 40 CFR part 600. (c)(1) The incomplete automobile manufacturer shall either attach the document specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the incomplete automobile in such a manner that it will not be inadvertently detached or send that document directly to the subsequent manufacturer to which that automobile is delivered. (2)(i) If the incomplete automobile manufacturer places the portion of the body including the windshield and front seat side windows on the incomplete automobile, that manufacturer shall attach the fuel economy label specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to that automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600. If the incomplete automobile manufacturer does not place that portion of the body on the incomplete automobile, that manufacturer shall send that label directly to the subsequent manufacturer to which that automobile is delivered. (ii) Upon request by an intermediate or final-stage manufacturer for a copy of a fuel economy label that is required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section to have been prepared by the incomplete automobile manufacturer for one of its incomplete automobiles, identified by the requesting manufacturer in the same fashion as in the document specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the incomplete automobile manufacturer shall send that manufacturer a copy of the label. &#xA7; 529.5 Requirements for intermediate manufacturers. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section and in &#xA7; 529.6, each intermediate manufacturer whose manufacturing operations on an incomplete automobile cause it to exceed the maximum curb weight or maximum frontal area set forth in the document furnished it by the incomplete automobile manufacturer under &#xA7; 529.4(c)(1) or by a previous intermediate manufacturer under paragraph (b) of this section, as appropriate, is considered the manufacturer of the multistage automobile manufactured from that automobile for the purpose of the requirements of Title V and rules issued thereunder, other than that in part 537, Fuel Economy Reports. (b) Each intermediate manufacturer of an incomplete automobile shall furnish, in the manner specified in &#xA7; 529.4(c), to the subsequent manufacturer of that automobile the document required by &#xA7; 529.4(b) regarding that automobile. If any of the changes in the automobile made by the intermediate manufacturer affect the validity of the fuel economy values or other statement in the document or any addendum attached to the document by a previous manufacturer of the automobile, the intermediate manufacturer shall furnish an addendum to the document that contains its name and mailing address and an indication of all changes that should be made in the document to reflect changes that it made in the automobile. (c) Each intermediate manufacturer that is required by paragraph (b) of this section to furnish an addendum to a document required by &#xA7; 529.4(b) shall, within 10 days after completing its manufacturing operations, send a copy of the document and addendum to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and to the manufacturer previously considered under this part to be the manufacturer of the automobile. (d)(1) If the intermediate manufacturer's manufacturing operations on an incomplete automobile cause it to exceed the maximum curb weight or maximum frontal area set forth in the document furnished it by the incomplete automobile manufacturer under &#xA7; 529.4(c)(1) or a previous intermediate manufacturer under paragraph (b) of this section, as appropriate, that manufacturer shall prepare a new fuel economy label for that automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600. (2) If neither the intermediate manufacturer of an incomplete automobile nor any previous manufacturer of that automobile has placed the portion of the body including the windshield and front seat side windows on that automobile, the intermediate manufacturer shall send the fuel economy label furnished it by the incomplete automobile manufacturer under &#xA7; 529.4(c)(2)(i) or a previous intermediate manufacturer under paragraph (d)(2) of this section or prepared by it under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, as appropriate, directly to the subsequent manufacturer to which that automobile is delivered. (3) If the intermediate manufacturer places the portion of the body including the windshield and front seat side windows on the incomplete automobile, that manufacturer shall attach the fuel economy label furnished it under &#xA7; 529.4(c)(i) or paragraph (d)(2) of this section or the fuel economy label prepared by it under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, as appropriate, to that automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600. (4) The intermediate manufacturer shall attach to the incomplete automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600 a fuel economy label identical to the label that is required under this part to have been prepared by the manufacturer considered under this part to be the manufacturer of that automobile if: (i) The portion of the body including the windshield and front seat side windows was added to the incomplete automobile by a previous manufacturer; (ii) The intermediate manufacturer's manufacturing operations do not cause that automobile to exceed either of the maxima specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and (iii) That label is not on that automobile when received by the intermediate manufacturer or is removed from that automobile while it is in the possession of that manufacturer. (5) Upon request by a subsequent intermediate manufacturer or by a final-stage manufacturer for a copy of a fuel economy label prepared by the intermediate manufacturer under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for one of its incomplete automobiles, identified by the requesting manufacturer in the same fashion as in the document specified in &#xA7; 529.4(b)(1), the intermediate manufacturer shall send that manufacturer a copy of that label. &#xA7; 529.6 Requirements for final-stage manufacturers. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each final-stage manufacturer whose manufacturing operations on an incomplete automobile cause the completed automobile to exceed the maximum curb weight or maximum frontal area set forth in the document specified in &#xA7; 529.4(b) and furnished it by the incomplete automobile manufacturer under &#xA7; 529.4(c)(1) or by the last intermediate manufacturer under &#xA7; 529.5(b), as appropriate, is considered the manufacturer of the completed automobile for the purpose of the requirements of Title V and rules issued thereunder, other than those in part 537, Fuel Economy Reports. (b) Each final-stage manufacturer that becomes the manufacturer of a multistage automobile under paragraph (a) of this section shall, within 10 days after completing its manufacturing operations on that automobile, send written notification of its exceeding the curb weight or frontal area maximum to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and to the manufacturer previously considered under this part to be the manufacturer of the automobile. (c)(1) If the final-stage manufacturer becomes the manufacturer of a multistage automobile under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, that manufacturer shall prepare a new fuel economy label for that automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600. (2) If the final-stage manufacturer places the portion of the body including the windshield and front seat side windows on the incomplete automobile, that manufacturer shall attach the fuel economy label furnished by the incomplete automobile manufacturer under &#xA7; 529.4(c)(2) or by the last intermediate manufacturer under &#xA7; 529.5(d)(2) or the fuel economy label prepared by the final-stage manufacturer under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, as appropriate, to that automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600. (3) The final-stage manufacturer shall attach to the completed automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600 a fuel economy label identical to the label that is required under this part to have been prepared by the manufacturer considered under this part to be the manufacturer of that automobile if: (i) The portion of the body including the windshield and front seat side windows was added to the completed automobile by a previous manufacturer; (ii) The final-stage manufacturer's manufacturing operations do not cause that automobile to exceed either of the maxima specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and (iii) That fuel economy label is not on that automobile when received by that manufacturer or is removed from that automobile while it is in the possession of that manufacturer.